KLHL13
This gene encodes a BTB and kelch domain containing protein and belongs to the kelch repeat domain containing superfamily of proteins. The encoded protein functions as an adaptor protein that complexes with Cullin 3 and other proteins to form the Cullin 3-based E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase complex. This complex is necessary for proper chromosome segregation and completion of cytokinesis. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

SLC7A2
The protein encoded by this gene is a cationic amino acid transporter and a member of the APC (amino acid-polyamine-organocation) family of transporters. The encoded membrane protein is responsible for the cellular uptake of arginine, lysine and ornithine. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011].

ZMYND10
This gene encodes a protein containing a MYND-type zinc finger domain that likely functions in assembly of the dynein motor. Mutations in this gene can cause primary ciliary dyskinesia. This gene is also considered a tumor suppressor gene and is often mutated, deleted, or hypermethylated and silenced in cancer cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

PRKAR2B
cAMP is a signaling molecule important for a variety of cellular functions. cAMP exerts its effects by activating the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which transduces the signal through phosphorylation of different target proteins. The inactive kinase holoenzyme is a tetramer composed of two regulatory and two catalytic subunits. cAMP causes the dissociation of the inactive holoenzyme into a dimer of regulatory subunits bound to four cAMP and two free monomeric catalytic subunits. Four different regulatory subunits and three catalytic subunits have been identified in humans. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the regulatory subunits. This subunit can be phosphorylated by the activated catalytic subunit. This subunit has been shown to interact with and suppress the transcriptional activity of the cAMP responsive element binding protein 1 (CREB1) in activated T cells. Knockout studies in mice suggest that this subunit may play an important role in regulating energy balance and adiposity. The studies also suggest that this subunit may mediate the gene induction and cataleptic behavior induced by haloperidol. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ITGA2B
This gene encodes a member of the integrin alpha chain family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate light and heavy chains that associate through disulfide linkages to form a subunit of the alpha-IIb/beta-3 integrin cell adhesion receptor. This receptor plays a crucial role in the blood coagulation system, by mediating platelet aggregation. Mutations in this gene are associated with platelet-type bleeding disorders, which are characterized by a failure of platelet aggregation, including Glanzmann thrombasthenia. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016].

CRLF1
This gene encodes a member of the cytokine type I receptor family. The protein forms a secreted complex with cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 and acts on cells expressing ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors. The complex can promote survival of neuronal cells. Mutations in this gene result in Crisponi syndrome and cold-induced sweating syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009].

ETV1
This gene encodes a member of the ETS (E twenty-six) family of transcription factors. The ETS proteins regulate many target genes that modulate biological processes like cell growth, angiogenesis, migration, proliferation and differentiation. All ETS proteins contain an ETS DNA-binding domain that binds to DNA sequences containing the consensus 5'-CGGA[AT]-3'. The protein encoded by this gene contains a conserved short acidic transactivation domain (TAD) in the N-terminal region, in addition to the ETS DNA-binding domain in the C-terminal region. This gene is involved in chromosomal translocations, which result in multiple fusion proteins including EWS-ETV1 in Ewing sarcoma and at least 10 ETV1 partners (see PMID: 19657377, Table 1) in prostate cancer. In addition to chromosomal rearrangement, this gene is overexpressed in prostate cancer, melanoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016].

GAS7
Growth arrest-specific 7 is expressed primarily in terminally differentiated brain cells and predominantly in mature cerebellar Purkinje neurons. GAS7 plays a putative role in neuronal development. Several transcript variants encoding proteins which vary in the N-terminus have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CACNA2D2
Calcium channels mediate the entry of calcium ions into the cell upon membrane polarization. This gene encodes the alpha-2/delta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channel complex. The complex consists of the main channel-forming subunit alpha-1, and auxiliary subunits alpha-2/delta, beta, and gamma. The auxiliary subunits function in the assembly and membrane localization of the complex, and modulate calcium currents and channel activation/inactivation kinetics. The subunit encoded by this gene undergoes post-translational cleavage to yield the extracellular alpha2 peptide and a membrane-anchored delta polypeptide. This subunit is a receptor for the antiepileptic drug, gabapentin. Mutations in this gene are associated with early infantile epileptic encephalopathy. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are correlated with increased sensitivity to opioid drugs. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014].

COX15
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal component of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, catalyzes the electron transfer from reduced cytochrome c to oxygen. This component is a heteromeric complex consisting of 3 catalytic subunits encoded by mitochondrial genes and multiple structural subunits encoded by nuclear genes. The mitochondrially-encoded subunits function in electron transfer, and the nuclear-encoded subunits may function in the regulation and assembly of the complex. This nuclear gene encodes a protein which is not a structural subunit, but may be essential for the biogenesis of COX formation and may function in the hydroxylation of heme O, according to the yeast mutant studies. This protein is predicted to contain 5 transmembrane domains localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Alternative splicing of this gene generates two transcript variants diverging in the 3' region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CYP24A1
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This mitochondrial protein initiates the degradation of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, the physiologically active form of vitamin D3, by hydroxylation of the side chain. In regulating the level of vitamin D3, this enzyme plays a role in calcium homeostasis and the vitamin D endocrine system. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SYT13
This gene encodes a member of the large synaptotagmin protein family. Family members have an extracellular N-terminal transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic C terminus with two tandem C2 domains (C2A and C2B). Synaptotogmin family members can form homo- and heteromeric complexes with each other. They also have different biochemical properties and developmental profiles, and patterns of tissue distribution. Synaptotagmins function as membrane traffickers in multicellular organisms. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011].

RUNX3
This gene encodes a member of the runt domain-containing family of transcription factors. A heterodimer of this protein and a beta subunit forms a complex that binds to the core DNA sequence 5'-PYGPYGGT-3' found in a number of enhancers and promoters, and can either activate or suppress transcription. It also interacts with other transcription factors. It functions as a tumor suppressor, and the gene is frequently deleted or transcriptionally silenced in cancer. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016].

BCLAF1
This gene encodes a transcriptional repressor that interacts with several members of the BCL2 family of proteins. Overexpression of this protein induces apoptosis, which can be suppressed by co-expression of BCL2 proteins. The protein localizes to dot-like structures throughout the nucleus, and redistributes to a zone near the nuclear envelope in cells undergoing apoptosis. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

HMGB3
This gene encodes a member of a family of proteins containing one or more high mobility group DNA-binding motifs. The encoded protein plays an important role in maintaining stem cell populations, and may be aberrantly expressed in tumor cells. A mutation in this gene was associated with microphthalmia, syndromic 13. There are numerous pseudogenes of this gene on multiple chromosomes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

IKZF2
This gene encodes a member of the Ikaros family of zinc-finger proteins. Three members of this protein family (Ikaros, Aiolos and Helios) are hematopoietic-specific transcription factors involved in the regulation of lymphocyte development. This protein forms homo- or hetero-dimers with other Ikaros family members, and is thought to function predominantly in early hematopoietic development. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene, but the biological validity of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ARHGAP31
This gene encodes a GTPase-activating protein (GAP). A variety of cellular processes are regulated by Rho GTPases which cycle between an inactive form bound to GDP and an active form bound to GTP. This cycling between inactive and active forms is regulated by guanine nucleotide exchange factors and GAPs. The encoded protein is a GAP shown to regulate two GTPases involved in protein trafficking and cell growth. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RNF19A
This gene encodes a member of the ring between ring fingers (RBR) protein family, and the encoded protein contains two RING-finger motifs and an in between RING fingers motif. This protein is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that is localized to Lewy bodies, and ubiquitylates synphilin-1, which is an interacting protein of alpha synuclein in neurons. The encoded protein may be involved in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013].

TLL1
This gene encodes an astacin-like, zinc-dependent, metalloprotease that belongs to the peptidase M12A family. This protease processes procollagen C-propeptides, such as chordin, pro-biglycan and pro-lysyl oxidase. Studies in mice suggest that this gene plays multiple roles in the development of mammalian heart, and is essential for the formation of the interventricular septum. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with atrial septal defect type 6. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011].

ATP6V1H
This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of intracellular organelles. V-ATPase-dependent organelle acidification is necessary for multiple processes including protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. The encoded protein is the regulatory H subunit of the V1 domain of V-ATPase, which is required for catalysis of ATP but not the assembly of V-ATPase. Decreased expression of this gene may play a role in the development of type 2 diabetes. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012].

KITLG
This gene encodes the ligand of the tyrosine-kinase receptor encoded by the KIT locus. This ligand is a pleiotropic factor that acts in utero in germ cell and neural cell development, and hematopoiesis, all believed to reflect a role in cell migration. In adults, it functions pleiotropically, while mostly noted for its continued requirement in hematopoiesis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

LTBP1
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of latent TGF-beta binding proteins (LTBPs). The secretion and activation of TGF-betas is regulated by their association with latency-associated proteins and with latent TGF-beta binding proteins. The product of this gene targets latent complexes of transforming growth factor beta to the extracellular matrix, where the latent cytokine is subsequently activated by several different mechanisms. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SLC4A8
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein that functions to transport sodium and bicarbonate ions across the cell membrane. The encoded protein is important for pH regulation in neurons. The activity of this protein can be inhibited by 4,4'-Di-isothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS). Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012].

FNIP2
This gene encodes a protein that binds to the tumor suppressor folliculin and to AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and may play a role cellular metabolism and nutrient sensing by regulating the AMPK-mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathway. The encoded protein may also be involved in regulating the O6-methylguanine-induced apoptosis signaling pathway. This gene has a closely related paralog that encodes a protein with similar binding activities. Both related proteins also associate with the molecular chaperone heat shock protein-90 (Hsp90) and negatively regulate its ATPase activity and facilitate its association with folliculin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017].

FOXN3
This gene is a member of the forkhead/winged helix transcription factor family. Checkpoints are eukaryotic DNA damage-inducible cell cycle arrests at G1 and G2. Checkpoint suppressor 1 suppresses multiple yeast checkpoint mutations including mec1, rad9, rad53 and dun1 by activating a MEC1-independent checkpoint pathway. Alternative splicing is observed at the locus, resulting in distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

FOXC1
This gene belongs to the forkhead family of transcription factors which is characterized by a distinct DNA-binding forkhead domain.  The specific function of this gene has not yet been determined; however, it has been shown to play a role in the regulation of embryonic and ocular development.  Mutations in this gene cause various glaucoma phenotypes including primary congenital glaucoma, autosomal dominant iridogoniodysgenesis anomaly, and Axenfeld-Rieger anomaly. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SYNE2
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear outer membrane protein that binds cytoplasmic F-actin. This binding tethers the nucleus to the cytoskeleton and aids in the maintenance of the structural integrity of the nucleus. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009].

CDK14
PFTK1 is a member of the CDC2 (MIM 116940)-related protein kinase family (Yang and Chen, 2001 [PubMed 11313143]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

SLC6A16
SLC6A16 shows structural characteristics of an Na(+)- and Cl(-)-dependent neurotransmitter transporter, including 12 transmembrane (TM) domains, intracellular N and C termini, and large extracellular loops containing multiple N-glycosylation sites.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

OAT
This gene encodes the mitochondrial enzyme ornithine aminotransferase, which is a key enzyme in the pathway that converts arginine and ornithine into the major excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA. Mutations that result in a deficiency of this enzyme cause the autosomal recessive eye disease Gyrate Atrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. Related pseudogenes have been defined on the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010].

ASPM
This gene is the human ortholog of the Drosophila melanogaster 'abnormal spindle' gene (asp), which is essential for normal mitotic spindle function in embryonic neuroblasts. Studies in mouse also suggest a role of this gene in mitotic spindle regulation, with a preferential role in regulating neurogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with microcephaly primary type 5. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2011].

EML1
Human echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like is a strong candidate for the Usher syndrome type 1A gene. Usher syndromes (USHs) are a group of genetic disorders consisting of congenital deafness, retinitis pigmentosa, and vestibular dysfunction of variable onset and severity depending on the genetic type. The disease process in USHs involves the entire brain and is not limited to the posterior fossa or auditory and visual systems. The USHs are catagorized as type I (USH1A, USH1B, USH1C, USH1D, USH1E and USH1F), type II (USH2A and USH2B) and type III (USH3). The type I is the most severe form. Gene loci responsible for these three types are all mapped. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

IARS2
Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases catalyze the aminoacylation of tRNA by their cognate amino acid. Because of their central role in linking amino acids with nucleotide triplets contained in tRNAS, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are thought to be among the first proteins that appeared in evolution. Two forms of isoleucine-tRNA synthetase exist, a cytoplasmic form and a mitochondrial form. This gene encodes the mitochondrial isoleucine-tRNA synthetase which belongs to the class-I aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014].

PDK3
The pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) complex is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the overall conversion of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA and CO(2). It provides the primary link between glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and thus is one of the major enzymes responsible for the regulation of glucose metabolism. The enzymatic activity of PDH is regulated by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle, and phosphorylation results in inactivation of PDH. The protein encoded by this gene is one of the three pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases that inhibits the PDH complex by phosphorylation of the E1 alpha subunit. This gene is predominantly expressed in the heart and skeletal muscles. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

REEP1
This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein that functions to enhance the cell surface expression of odorant receptors. Mutations in this gene cause spastic paraplegia autosomal dominant type 31, a neurodegenerative disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009].

IP6K2
This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the inositol phosphokinase (IPK) family. This protein is likely responsible for the conversion of inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6) to diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (InsP7/PP-InsP5). It may also convert 1,3,4,5,6-pentakisphosphate (InsP5) to PP-InsP4 and affect the growth suppressive and apoptotic activities of interferon-beta in some ovarian cancers. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RASGRP2
The protein encoded by this gene is a brain-enriched nucleotide exchanged factor that contains an N-terminal GEF domain, 2 tandem repeats of EF-hand calcium-binding motifs, and a C-terminal diacylglycerol/phorbol ester-binding domain. This protein can activate small GTPases, including RAS and RAP1/RAS3. The nucleotide exchange activity of this protein can be stimulated by calcium and diacylglycerol. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016].

TGFBR3
This locus encodes the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta type III receptor. The encoded receptor is a membrane proteoglycan that often functions as a co-receptor with other TGF-beta receptor superfamily members. Ectodomain shedding produces soluble TGFBR3, which may inhibit TGFB signaling. Decreased expression of this receptor has been observed in various cancers. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010].

LRP6
This gene encodes a member of the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor gene family. LDL receptors are transmembrane cell surface proteins involved in receptor-mediated endocytosis of lipoprotein and protein ligands. The protein encoded by this gene functions as a receptor or, with Frizzled, a co-receptor for Wnt and thereby transmits the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade. Through its interaction with the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling cascade this gene plays a role in the regulation of cell differentiation, proliferation, and migration and the development of many cancer types. This protein undergoes gamma-secretase dependent RIP- (regulated intramembrane proteolysis) processing but the precise locations of the cleavage sites have not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009].

TRIB2
This gene encodes one of three members of the Tribbles family. The Tribbles members share a Trb domain, which is homologous to protein serine-threonine kinases, but lacks the active site lysine and probably lacks a catalytic function. The Tribbles proteins interact and modulate the activity of signal transduction pathways in a number of physiological and pathological processes. This Tribbles member induces apoptosis of cells mainly of the hematopoietic origin. It has been identified as a protein up-regulated by inflammatory stimuli in myeloid (THP-1) cells, and also as an oncogene that inactivates the transcription factor C/EBPalpha (CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha) and causes acute myelogenous leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009].

LNX1
This gene encodes a membrane-bound protein that is involved in signal transduction and protein interactions. The encoded product is an E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase, which mediates ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of proteins containing phosphotyrosine binding (PTB) domains. This protein may play an important role in tumorogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. A pseudogene, which is located on chromosome 17, has been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RHOBTB1
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Rho family of the small GTPase superfamily. It contains a GTPase domain, a proline-rich region, a tandem of 2 BTB (broad complex, tramtrack, and bric-a-brac) domains, and a conserved C-terminal region. The protein plays a role in small GTPase-mediated signal transduction and the organization of the actin filament system. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008].

HMMR
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cell motility. It is expressed in breast tissue and together with other proteins, it forms a complex with BRCA1 and BRCA2, thus is potentially associated with higher risk of breast cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2008].

SDHA
This gene encodes a major catalytic subunit of succinate-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, a complex of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. The complex is composed of four nuclear-encoded subunits and is localized in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with a form of mitochondrial respiratory chain deficiency known as Leigh Syndrome. A pseudogene has been identified on chromosome 3q29. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014].

ENO1
This gene encodes alpha-enolase, one of three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. Each isoenzyme is a homodimer composed of 2 alpha, 2 gamma, or 2 beta subunits, and functions as a glycolytic enzyme. Alpha-enolase in addition, functions as a structural lens protein (tau-crystallin) in the monomeric form. Alternative splicing of this gene results in a shorter isoform that has been shown to bind to the c-myc promoter and function as a tumor suppressor. Several pseudogenes have been identified, including one on the long arm of chromosome 1. Alpha-enolase has also been identified as an autoantigen in Hashimoto encephalopathy. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011].

SEMA3A
This gene is a member of the semaphorin family and encodes a protein with an Ig-like C2-type (immunoglobulin-like) domain, a PSI domain and a Sema domain. This secreted protein can function as either a chemorepulsive agent, inhibiting axonal outgrowth, or as a chemoattractive agent, stimulating the growth of apical dendrites. In both cases, the protein is vital for normal neuronal pattern development. Increased expression of this protein is associated with schizophrenia and is seen in a variety of human tumor cell lines. Also, aberrant release of this protein is associated with the progression of Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

FOSL2
The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2. These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that can dimerize with proteins of the JUN family, thereby forming the transcription factor complex AP-1. As such, the FOS proteins have been implicated as regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation, and transformation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

PLXNA2
This gene encodes a member of the plexin-A family of semaphorin co-receptors. Semaphorins are a large family of secreted or membrane-bound proteins that mediate repulsive effects on axon pathfinding during nervous system development. A subset of semaphorins are recognized by plexin-A/neuropilin transmembrane receptor complexes, triggering a cellular signal transduction cascade that leads to axon repulsion. This plexin-A family member is thought to transduce signals from semaphorin-3A and -3C. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PAG1
The protein encoded by this gene is a type III transmembrane adaptor protein that binds to the tyrosine kinase csk protein. It is thought to be involved in the regulation of T cell activation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MBNL3
This gene encodes a member of the muscleblind-like family of proteins. The encoded protein may function in regulation of alternative splicing and may play a role in the pathophysiology of myotonic dystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2009].

CTTNBP2
This gene encodes a protein with six ankyrin repeats and several proline-rich regions. A similar gene in rat interacts with a central regulator of the actin cytoskeleton. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TOP2B
This gene encodes a DNA topoisomerase, an enzyme that controls and alters the topologic states of DNA during transcription. This nuclear enzyme is involved in processes such as chromosome condensation, chromatid separation, and the relief of torsional stress that occurs during DNA transcription and replication. It catalyzes the transient breaking and rejoining of two strands of duplex DNA which allows the strands to pass through one another, thus altering the topology of DNA. Two forms of this enzyme exist as likely products of a gene duplication event. The gene encoding this form, beta, is localized to chromosome 3 and the alpha form is localized to chromosome 17. The gene encoding this enzyme functions as the target for several anticancer agents and a variety of mutations in this gene have been associated with the development of drug resistance. Reduced activity of this enzyme may also play a role in ataxia-telangiectasia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016].

CAPN6
Calpains are ubiquitous, well-conserved family of calcium-dependent, cysteine proteases. The calpain proteins are heterodimers consisting of an invariant small subunit and variable large subunits. The large subunit possesses a cysteine protease domain, and both subunits possess calcium-binding domains. Calpains have been implicated in neurodegenerative processes, as their activation can be triggered by calcium influx and oxidative stress. The protein encoded by this gene is highly expressed in the placenta. Its C-terminal region lacks any homology to the calmodulin-like domain of other calpains. The protein lacks critical active site residues and thus is suggested to be proteolytically inactive. The protein may play a role in tumor formation by inhibiting apoptosis and promoting angiogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009].

NEBL
This gene encodes a nebulin like protein that is abundantly expressed in cardiac muscle. The encoded protein binds actin and interacts with thin filaments and Z-line associated proteins in striated muscle. This protein may be involved in cardiac myofibril assembly. A shorter isoform of this protein termed LIM nebulette is expressed in non-muscle cells and may function as a component of focal adhesion complexes. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

FKBP7
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the FKBP-type peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase (PPIase) family. Members of this family exhibit PPIase activity and function as molecular chaperones. A similar protein in mouse is located in the endoplasmic reticulum and binds calcium. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SLC1A3
This gene encodes a member of a member of a high affinity glutamate transporter family. This gene functions in the termination of excitatory neurotransmission in central nervous system. Mutations are associated with episodic ataxia, Type 6. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014].

CDC14A
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein tyrosine phosphatase family. It is highly similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae Cdc14, a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the exit of cell mitosis and initiation of DNA replication, suggesting a role in cell cycle control. This protein has been shown to interact with, and dephosphorylate tumor suppressor protein p53, and is thought to regulate the function of p53. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MEF2C
This locus encodes a member of the MADS box transcription enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) family of proteins, which play a role in myogenesis. The encoded protein, MEF2 polypeptide C, has both trans-activating and DNA binding activities. This protein may play a role in maintaining the differentiated state of muscle cells. Mutations and deletions at this locus have been associated with severe cognitive disability, stereotypic movements, epilepsy, and cerebral malformation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010].

ZNF510
This gene encodes a krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family member. The encoded protein is expressed in several cancer cell types and may be a biomarker for early diagnosis of these cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015].

NOA1
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded GTPase that functions in the mitochondrion. Upon translation, this protein is imported into the nucleus and then into the nucleolus before being exported to the mitochondrion. The encoded protein is required for oxygen-dependent regulation of mitochondrial respiratory complexes and for mitochondrial protein synthesis. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015].

REST
This gene was initially identified as a transcriptional repressor that represses neuronal genes in non-neuronal tissues. However, depending on the cellular context, this gene can act as either an oncogene or a tumor suppressor. The encoded protein is a member of the Kruppel-type zinc finger transcription factor family. It represses transcription by binding a DNA sequence element called the neuron-restrictive silencer element. The protein is also found in undifferentiated neuronal progenitor cells and it is thought that this repressor may act as a master negative regulator of neurogenesis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described. [provided by RefSeq, May 2018].

HADHA
This gene encodes the alpha subunit of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein, which catalyzes the last three steps of mitochondrial beta-oxidation of long chain fatty acids. The mitochondrial membrane-bound heterocomplex is composed of four alpha and four beta subunits, with the alpha subunit catalyzing the 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and enoyl-CoA hydratase activities. Mutations in this gene result in trifunctional protein deficiency or LCHAD deficiency. The genes of the alpha and beta subunits of the mitochondrial trifunctional protein are located adjacent to each other in the human genome in a head-to-head orientation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ABCB1
The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the MDR/TAP subfamily. Members of the MDR/TAP subfamily are involved in multidrug resistance. The protein encoded by this gene is an ATP-dependent drug efflux pump for xenobiotic compounds with broad substrate specificity. It is responsible for decreased drug accumulation in multidrug-resistant cells and often mediates the development of resistance to anticancer drugs. This protein also functions as a transporter in the blood-brain barrier. Mutations in this gene are associated with colchicine resistance and Inflammatory bowel disease 13. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2017].

WNT11
The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It encodes a protein which shows 97%, 85%, and 63% amino acid identity with mouse, chicken, and Xenopus Wnt11 protein, respectively. This gene may play roles in the development of skeleton, kidney and lung, and is considered to be a plausible candidate gene for High Bone Mass Syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ADAMTS2
This gene encodes a member of the ADAMTS (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs) protein family. Members of the family share several distinct protein modules, including a propeptide region, a metalloproteinase domain, a disintegrin-like domain, and a thrombospondin type 1 (TS) motif. Individual members of this family differ in the number of C-terminal TS motifs, and some have unique C-terminal domains. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature procollagen N-proteinase. This proteinase excises the N-propeptide of the fibrillar procollagens types I-III and type V. Mutations in this gene cause Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIIC, a recessively inherited connective-tissue disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that is proteolytically processed. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016].

AURKA
The protein encoded by this gene is a cell cycle-regulated kinase that appears to be involved in microtubule formation and/or stabilization at the spindle pole during chromosome segregation. The encoded protein is found at the centrosome in interphase cells and at the spindle poles in mitosis. This gene may play a role in tumor development and progression. A processed pseudogene of this gene has been found on chromosome 1, and an unprocessed pseudogene has been found on chromosome 10. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

P2RX7
The product of this gene belongs to the family of purinoceptors for ATP. This receptor functions as a ligand-gated ion channel and is responsible for ATP-dependent lysis of macrophages through the formation of membrane pores permeable to large molecules. Activation of this nuclear receptor by ATP in the cytoplasm may be a mechanism by which cellular activity can be coupled to changes in gene expression. Multiple alternatively spliced variants have been identified, most of which fit nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) criteria. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010].

BIRC5
This gene is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family, which encode negative regulatory proteins that prevent apoptotic cell death. IAP family members usually contain multiple baculovirus IAP repeat (BIR) domains, but this gene encodes proteins with only a single BIR domain. The encoded proteins also lack a C-terminus RING finger domain. Gene expression is high during fetal development and in most tumors, yet low in adult tissues. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011].

LAG3
Lymphocyte-activation protein 3 belongs to Ig superfamily and contains 4 extracellular Ig-like domains. The LAG3 gene contains 8 exons.  The sequence data, exon/intron organization, and chromosomal localization all indicate a close relationship of LAG3 to CD4. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ICAM1
This gene encodes a cell surface glycoprotein which is typically expressed on endothelial cells and cells of the immune system. It binds to integrins of type CD11a / CD18, or CD11b / CD18 and is also exploited by Rhinovirus as a receptor. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CHRD
This gene encodes a secreted protein that dorsalizes early vertebrate embryonic tissues by binding to ventralizing TGF-beta-like bone morphogenetic proteins and sequestering them in latent complexes. The encoded protein may also have roles in organogenesis and during adulthood. It has been suggested that this gene could be a candidate gene for Cornelia de Lange syndrome. Reduced expression of this gene results in enhanced bone regeneration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Other alternative splice variants have been described but their full length sequence has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015].

UPRT
This gene encodes uracil phosphoribosyltransferase, which catalyzes the conversion of uracil and 5-phosphoribosyl-1-R-diphosphate to uridine monophosphate (UMP). This reaction is an important part of nucleotide metabolism, specifically the pyrimidine salvage pathway. The enzyme localizes to the nucleus and cytoplasm. The protein is a potential target for rational design of drugs to treat parasitic infections and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009].

MAP3K1
The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase and is part of some signal transduction cascades, including the ERK and JNK kinase pathways as well as the NF-kappa-B pathway. The encoded protein is activated by autophosphorylation and requires magnesium as a cofactor in phosphorylating other proteins. This protein has E3 ligase activity conferred by a plant homeodomain (PHD) in its N-terminus and phospho-kinase activity conferred by a kinase domain in its C-terminus. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012].

FKBP5
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunophilin protein family, which play a role in immunoregulation and basic cellular processes involving protein folding and trafficking. This encoded protein is a cis-trans prolyl isomerase that binds to the immunosuppressants FK506 and rapamycin. It is thought to mediate calcineurin inhibition. It also interacts functionally with mature hetero-oligomeric progesterone receptor complexes along with the 90 kDa heat shock protein and P23 protein. This gene has been found to have multiple polyadenylation sites. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009].

EFNA2
This gene encodes a member of the ephrin family. The protein is composed of a signal sequence, a receptor-binding region, a spacer region, and a hydrophobic region. The EPH and EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. Posttranslational modifications determine whether this protein localizes to the nucleus or the cytoplasm. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CRKL
This gene encodes a protein kinase containing SH2 and SH3 (src homology) domains which has been shown to activate the RAS and JUN kinase signaling pathways and transform fibroblasts in a RAS-dependent fashion. It is a substrate of the BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase, plays a role in fibroblast transformation by BCR-ABL, and may be oncogenic.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2009].

CECR2
This gene encodes a bromodomain-containing protein that is involved in chromatin remodeling, and may additionally play a role in DNA damage response. The encoded protein functions as part of an ATP-dependent complex that is involved in neurulation. This gene is a candidate gene for Cat Eye Syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014].

YPEL1
This gene is located in the region associated with DiGeorge syndrome on chromosome 22. The encoded protein localizes to the centrosome and nucleolus and may play a role in the regulation of cell division. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015].

SEPTIN3
This gene belongs to the septin family of GTPases. Members of this family are required for cytokinesis. Expression is upregulated by retinoic acid in a human teratocarcinoma cell line. The specific function of this gene has not been determined. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2018].

TIMP3
This gene belongs to the TIMP gene family. The proteins encoded by this gene family are inhibitors of the matrix metalloproteinases, a group of peptidases involved in degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Expression of this gene is induced in response to mitogenic stimulation and this netrin domain-containing protein is localized to the ECM. Mutations in this gene have been associated with the autosomal dominant disorder Sorsby's fundus dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SYNGR1
This gene encodes an integral membrane protein associated with presynaptic vesicles in neuronal cells. The exact function of this protein is unclear, but studies of a similar murine protein suggest that it functions in synaptic plasticity without being required for synaptic transmission. The gene product belongs to the synaptogyrin gene family. Three alternatively spliced variants encoding three different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TRIM9
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, a B-box type 1 and a B-box type 2, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizes to cytoplasmic bodies. Its function has not been identified. Alternate splicing of this gene generates two transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

REC8
This gene encodes a member of the kleisin family of SMC (structural maintenance of chromosome) protein partners. The protein localizes to the axial elements of chromosomes during meiosis in both oocytes and spermatocytes. In the mouse, the homologous protein is a key component of the meiotic cohesion complex, which regulates sister chromatid cohesion and recombination between homologous chromosomes. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ADNP
Vasoactive intestinal peptide is a neuroprotective factor that has a stimulatory effect on the growth of some tumor cells and an inhibitory effect on others. This gene encodes a protein that is upregulated by vasoactive intestinal peptide and may be involved in its stimulatory effect on certain tumor cells. The encoded protein contains one homeobox and nine zinc finger domains, suggesting that it functions as a transcription factor. This gene is also upregulated in normal proliferative tissues. Finally, the encoded protein may increase the viability of certain cell types through modulation of p53 activity. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RNF24
This gene encodes an integral membrane protein that contains a RING-type zinc finger. The encoded protein may interact with multiple transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C (TRPC) proteins and regulate the trafficking and insertion of these proteins into the plasma membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016].

RASSF2
This gene encodes a protein that contains a Ras association domain. Similar to its cattle and sheep counterparts, this gene is located near the prion gene. Two alternatively spliced transcripts encoding the same isoform have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

POLA1
This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of DNA polymerase, which together with a regulatory and two primase subunits, forms the DNA polymerase alpha complex. The catalytic subunit plays an essential role in the initiation of DNA replication. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

NXT2
The protein encoded by this gene contains a nuclear transport factor 2 (NTF2) domain, which plays an important role in the trafficking of macromolecules, ions, and small molecules between the cytoplasm and nucleus. This protein may also have a role in mRNA nuclear export. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011].

PLS3
Plastins are a family of actin-binding proteins that are conserved throughout eukaryote evolution and expressed in most tissues of higher eukaryotes. In humans, two ubiquitous plastin isoforms (L and T) have been identified. Plastin 1 (otherwise known as Fimbrin) is a third distinct plastin isoform which is specifically expressed at high levels in the small intestine. The L isoform is expressed only in hemopoietic cell lineages, while the T isoform has been found in all other normal cells of solid tissues that have replicative potential (fibroblasts, endothelial cells, epithelial cells, melanocytes, etc.). The C-terminal 570 amino acids of the T-plastin and L-plastin proteins are 83% identical. It contains a potential calcium-binding site near the N terminus. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010].

KCND1
This gene encodes a multipass membrane protein that comprises the pore subunit of the voltage-gated A-type potassium channel, which functions in the repolarization of membrane action potentials. Activity of voltage-gated potassium channels is important in a number of physiological processes, among them the regulation of neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, and smooth muscle contraction. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013].

PIM2
This gene encodes a protooncogene that acts as a serine/threonine protein kinase. Studies determined the encoded protein functions to prevent apoptosis and to promote cell survival.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009].

PGK1
The protein encoded by this gene is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate. The encoded protein may also act as a cofactor for polymerase alpha. Additionally, this protein is secreted by tumor cells where it participates in angiogenesis by functioning to reduce disulfide bonds in the serine protease, plasmin, which consequently leads to the release of the tumor blood vessel inhibitor angiostatin. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. Deficiency of the enzyme is associated with a wide range of clinical phenotypes hemolytic anemia and neurological impairment. Pseudogenes of this gene have been defined on chromosomes 19, 21 and the X chromosome. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014].

CORO1A
This gene encodes a member of the WD repeat protein family. WD repeats are minimally conserved regions of approximately 40 amino acids typically bracketed by gly-his and trp-asp (GH-WD), which may facilitate formation of heterotrimeric or multiprotein complexes. Members of this family are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including cell cycle progression, signal transduction, apoptosis, and gene regulation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A related pseudogene has been defined on chromosome 16. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010].

NFAT5
The product of this gene is a member of the nuclear factors of activated T cells family of transcription factors. Proteins belonging to this family play a central role in inducible gene transcription during the immune response. This protein regulates gene expression induced by osmotic stress in mammalian cells. Unlike monomeric members of this protein family, this protein exists as a homodimer and forms stable dimers with DNA elements. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ZNF821
This gene encodes a protein with two C2H2 zinc finger motifs and a score-and-three (23)-amino acid peptide repeat (STPR) domain. The STPR domain of the encoded protein binds to double stranded DNA and may also contain a nuclear localization signal, suggesting that this protein interacts with chromosomal DNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011].

NDRG4
This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family which belongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein that is required for cell cycle progression and survival in primary astrocytes and may be involved in the regulation of mitogenic signalling in vascular smooth muscles cells. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcripts encoding different isoforms.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011].

CRYM
Crystallins are separated into two classes: taxon-specific and ubiquitous. The former class is also called phylogenetically-restricted crystallins. The latter class constitutes the major proteins of vertebrate eye lens and maintains the transparency and refractive index of the lens. This gene encodes a taxon-specific crystallin protein that binds NADPH and has sequence similarity to bacterial ornithine cyclodeaminases. The encoded protein does not perform a structural role in lens tissue, and instead it binds thyroid hormone for possible regulatory or developmental roles. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal dominant non-syndromic deafness. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014].

BMF
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the BCL2 protein family. BCL2 family members form hetero- or homodimers and act as anti- or pro-apoptotic regulators that are involved in a wide variety of cellular activities. This protein contains a single BCL2 homology domain 3 (BH3), and has been shown to bind BCL2 proteins and function as an apoptotic activator. This protein is found to be sequestered to myosin V motors by its association with dynein light chain 2, which may be important for sensing intracellular damage and triggering apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SLC30A4
Zinc is the second most abundant trace metal in the human body. It is an essential element, serving both a structural role, as in the formation of zinc fingers in DNA-binding proteins, and a catalytic role in metalloenzymes, such as pancreatic carboxypeptidases (e.g., MIM 114852), alkaline phosphatases (e.g., MIM 171760), various dehydrogenases, and superoxide dismutases (e.g., MIM 147450). SLC30A4, or ZNT4, belongs to the ZNT family of zinc transporters. ZNTs are involved in transporting zinc out of the cytoplasm and have similar structures, consisting of 6 transmembrane domains and a histidine-rich cytoplasmic loop (Huang and Gitschier, 1997 [PubMed 9354792]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

CA2
The protein encoded by this gene is one of several isozymes of carbonic anhydrase, which catalyzes reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. Defects in this enzyme are associated with osteopetrosis and renal tubular acidosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014].

FZD3
This gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. The function of this protein is unknown, although it may play a role in mammalian hair follicle development. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene is a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010].

NDRG1
This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family which belongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein involved in stress responses, hormone responses, cell growth, and differentiation. The encoded protein is necessary for p53-mediated caspase activation and apoptosis. Mutations in this gene are a cause of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 4D, and expression of this gene may be a prognostic indicator for several types of cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012].

BNIP3L
This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the pro-apoptotic subfamily within the Bcl-2 family of proteins. The encoded protein binds to Bcl-2 and possesses the BH3 domain. The protein directly targets mitochondria and causes apoptotic changes, including loss of membrane potential and the release of cytochrome c. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015].

GYS1
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the addition of glucose monomers to the growing glycogen molecule through the formation of alpha-1,4-glycoside linkages. Mutations in this gene are associated with muscle glycogen storage disease. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009].

SLC17A7
The protein encoded by this gene is a vesicle-bound, sodium-dependent phosphate transporter that is specifically expressed in the neuron-rich regions of the brain. It is preferentially associated with the membranes of synaptic vesicles and functions in glutamate transport. The protein shares 82% identity with the differentiation-associated Na-dependent inorganic phosphate cotransporter and they appear to form a distinct class within the Na+/Pi cotransporter family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

GPI
This gene encodes a member of the glucose phosphate isomerase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. In the cytoplasm, the gene product functions as a glycolytic enzyme (glucose-6-phosphate isomerase) that interconverts glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate. Extracellularly, the encoded protein (also referred to as neuroleukin) functions as a neurotrophic factor that promotes survival of skeletal motor neurons and sensory neurons, and as a lymphokine that induces immunoglobulin secretion. The encoded protein is also referred to as autocrine motility factor based on an additional function as a tumor-secreted cytokine and angiogenic factor. Defects in this gene are the cause of nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and a severe enzyme deficiency can be associated with hydrops fetalis, immediate neonatal death and neurological impairment. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016].

FSD1
This gene encodes a centrosome associated protein that is characterized by an N-terminal coiled-coil region downstream of B-box (BBC) domain, a central fibronectin type III domain, and a C-terminal repeats in splA and RyR (SPRY) domain. The encoded protein associates with a subset of microtubules and may be involved in the stability and organization of microtubules during cytokinesis. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009].

ATP1A3
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of Na+/K+ -ATPases. Na+/K+ -ATPase is an integral membrane protein responsible for establishing and maintaining the electrochemical gradients of Na and K ions across the plasma membrane. These gradients are essential for osmoregulation, for sodium-coupled transport of a variety of organic and inorganic molecules, and for electrical excitability of nerve and muscle. This enzyme is composed of two subunits, a large catalytic subunit (alpha) and a smaller glycoprotein subunit (beta). The catalytic subunit of Na+/K+ -ATPase is encoded by multiple genes. This gene encodes an alpha 3 subunit. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012].

SLC5A5
This gene encodes a member of the sodium glucose cotransporter family. The encoded protein is responsible for the uptake of iodine in tissues such as the thyroid and lactating breast tissue. The iodine taken up by the thyroid is incorporated into the metabolic regulators triiodothyronine (T3) and tetraiodothyronine (T4). Mutations in this gene are associated with thyroid dyshormonogenesis 1.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009].

UPK1A
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is found in the asymmetrical unit membrane (AUM) where it can complex with other transmembrane 4 superfamily proteins. It may play a role in normal bladder epithelial physiology, possibly in regulating membrane permeability of superficial umbrella cells or in stabilizing the apical membrane through AUM/cytoskeletal interactions. The protein may also play a role in tumor suppression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013].

RASA4
This gene encodes a member of the GAP1 family of GTPase-activating proteins that suppresses the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway in response to Ca(2+). Stimuli that increase intracellular Ca(2+) levels result in the translocation of this protein to the plasma membrane, where it activates Ras GTPase activity. Consequently, Ras is converted from the active GTP-bound state to the inactive GDP-bound state and no longer activates downstream pathways that regulate gene expression, cell growth, and differentiation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PMPCB
This gene is a member of the peptidase M16 family and encodes a protein with a zinc-binding motif. This protein is located in the mitochondrial matrix and catalyzes the cleavage of the leader peptides of precursor proteins newly imported into the mitochondria, though it only functions as part of a heterodimeric complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SP4
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcription factor that can bind to the GC promoter region of a variety of genes, including those of the photoreceptor signal transduction system. The encoded protein binds to the same sites in promoter CpG islands as does the transcription factor SP1, although its expression is much more restricted compared to that of SP1. This gene may be involved in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, May 2016].

CAV1
The scaffolding protein encoded by this gene is the main component of the caveolae plasma membranes found in most cell types. The protein links integrin subunits to the tyrosine kinase FYN, an initiating step in coupling integrins to the Ras-ERK pathway and promoting cell cycle progression. The gene is a tumor suppressor gene candidate and a negative regulator of the Ras-p42/44 mitogen-activated kinase cascade. Caveolin 1 and caveolin 2 are located next to each other on chromosome 7 and express colocalizing proteins that form a stable hetero-oligomeric complex. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy. Alternatively spliced transcripts encode alpha and beta isoforms of caveolin 1.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

HOXA13
In vertebrates, the genes encoding the class of transcription factors called homeobox genes are found in clusters named A, B, C, and D on four separate chromosomes. Expression of these proteins is spatially and temporally regulated during embryonic development. This gene is part of the A cluster on chromosome 7 and encodes a DNA-binding transcription factor which may regulate gene expression, morphogenesis, and differentiation. Expansion of a polyalanine tract in the encoded protein can cause hand-foot-uterus syndrome, also known as hand-foot-genital syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PRUNE2
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 and adenovirus E1B 19 kDa interacting family, whose members play roles in many cellular processes including apotosis, cell transformation, and synaptic function. Several functions for this protein have been demonstrated including suppression of Ras homolog family member A activity, which results in reduced stress fiber formation and suppression of oncogenic cellular transformation. A high molecular weight isoform of this protein has also been shown to colocalize with Adaptor protein complex 2, beta-Adaptin and endodermal markers, suggesting an involvement in post-endocytic trafficking. In prostate cancer cells, this gene acts as a tumor suppressor and its expression is regulated by prostate cancer antigen 3, a non-protein coding gene on the opposite DNA strand in an intron of this gene. Prostate cancer antigen 3 regulates levels of this gene through formation of a double-stranded RNA that undergoes adenosine deaminase actin on RNA-dependent adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015].

TGFBR1
The protein encoded by this gene forms a heteromeric complex with type II TGF-beta receptors when bound to TGF-beta, transducing the TGF-beta signal from the cell surface to the cytoplasm. The encoded protein is a serine/threonine protein kinase. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Loeys-Dietz aortic aneurysm syndrome (LDAS). Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008].

CA9
Carbonic anhydrases (CAs) are a large family of zinc metalloenzymes that catalyze the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide. They participate in a variety of biological processes, including respiration, calcification, acid-base balance, bone resorption, and the formation of aqueous humor, cerebrospinal fluid, saliva, and gastric acid. They show extensive diversity in tissue distribution and in their subcellular localization. CA IX is a transmembrane protein and is one of only two tumor-associated carbonic anhydrase isoenzymes known. It is expressed in all clear-cell renal cell carcinoma, but is not detected in normal kidney or most other normal tissues. It may be involved in cell proliferation and transformation. This gene was mapped to 17q21.2 by fluorescence in situ hybridization, however, radiation hybrid mapping localized it to 9p13-p12. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014].

GLIS3
This gene is a member of the GLI-similar zinc finger protein family and encodes a nuclear protein with five C2H2-type zinc finger domains. This protein functions as both a repressor and activator of transcription and is specifically involved in the development of pancreatic beta cells, the thyroid, eye, liver and kidney. Mutations in this gene have been associated with neonatal diabetes and congenital hypothyroidism (NDH). Alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described but the full-length nature of only two have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CUBN
Cubilin (CUBN) acts as a receptor for intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 complexes. The role of receptor is supported by the presence of 27 CUB domains. Cubulin is located within the epithelium of intestine and kidney. Mutations in CUBN may play a role in autosomal recessive megaloblastic anemia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SUFU
The Hedgehog signaling pathway plays an important role in early human development. The pathway is a signaling cascade that plays a role in pattern formation and cellular proliferation during development. This gene encodes a negative regulator of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Defects in this gene are a cause of medulloblastoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

MAP3K8
This gene is an oncogene that encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein localizes to the cytoplasm and can activate both the MAP kinase and JNK kinase pathways. This protein was shown to activate IkappaB kinases, and thus induce the nuclear production of NF-kappaB. This protein was also found to promote the production of TNF-alpha and IL-2 during T lymphocyte activation. This gene may also utilize a downstream in-frame translation start codon, and thus produce an isoform containing a shorter N-terminus. The shorter isoform has been shown to display weaker transforming activity. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

RGS9
This gene encodes a member of the RGS family of GTPase activating proteins that function in various signaling pathways by accelerating the deactivation of G proteins. This protein is anchored to photoreceptor membranes in retinal cells and deactivates G proteins in the rod and cone phototransduction cascades. Mutations in this gene result in bradyopsia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009].

SEPTIN4
This gene is a member of the septin family of nucleotide binding proteins, originally described in yeast as cell division cycle regulatory proteins. Septins are highly conserved in yeast, Drosophila, and mouse, and appear to regulate cytoskeletal organization. Disruption of septin function disturbs cytokinesis and results in large multinucleate or polyploid cells. This gene is highly expressed in brain and heart. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. One of the isoforms (known as ARTS) is distinct; it is localized to the mitochondria, and has a role in apoptosis and cancer. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010].

DHX40
This gene encodes a member of the DExH/D box family of ATP-dependent RNA helicases that have an essential role in RNA metabolism. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A pseudogene of this gene is found on chromosome 17.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009].

DLX4
Many vertebrate homeo box-containing genes have been identified on the basis of their sequence similarity with Drosophila developmental genes. Members of the Dlx gene family contain a homeobox that is related to that of Distal-less (Dll), a gene expressed in the head and limbs of the developing fruit fly. The Distal-less (Dlx) family of genes comprises at least 6 different members, DLX1-DLX6. The DLX proteins are postulated to play a role in forebrain and craniofacial development. Three transcript variants have been described for this gene, however, the full length nature of one variant has not been described. Studies of the two splice variants revealed that one encoded isoform functions as a repressor of the beta-globin gene while the other isoform lacks that function. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

LUC7L3
This gene encodes a protein with an N-terminal half that contains cysteine/histidine motifs and leucine zipper-like repeats, and the C-terminal half is rich in arginine and glutamate residues (RE domain) and arginine and serine residues (RS domain). This protein localizes with a speckled pattern in the nucleus, and could be involved in the formation of splicesome via the RE and RS domains. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009].

MPP2
Palmitoylated membrane protein 2 is a member of a family of membrane-associated proteins termed MAGUKs (membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologs).  MAGUKs interact with the cytoskeleton and regulate cell proliferation, signaling pathways, and intracellular junctions.  Palmitoylated membrane protein 2 contains a conserved sequence, called the SH3 (src homology 3) motif, found in several other proteins that associate with the cytoskeleton and are suspected to play important roles in signal transduction. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ALDOC
This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-biphosphate aldolase gene family. Expressed specifically in the hippocampus and Purkinje cells of the brain, the encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible aldol cleavage of fructose-1,6-biphosphate and fructose 1-phosphate to dihydroxyacetone phosphate and either glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate or glyceraldehyde, respectively. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

USP46
Modification of cellular proteins by ubiquitin is an essential regulatory mechanism controlled by the coordinated action of multiple ubiquitin-conjugating and deubiquitinating enzymes. USP46 belongs to a large family of cysteine proteases that function as deubiquitinating enzymes (Quesada et al., 2004 [PubMed 14715245]).[supplied by OMIM, Jun 2009].

INPP4B
INPP4B encodes the inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type II, one of the enzymes involved in phosphatidylinositol signaling pathways. This enzyme removes the phosphate group at position 4 of the inositol ring from inositol 3,4-bisphosphate. There is limited data to suggest that the human type II enzyme is subject to alternative splicing, as has been established for the type I enzyme. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

GAB1
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the IRS1-like multisubstrate docking protein family. It is an important mediator of branching tubulogenesis and plays a central role in cellular growth response, transformation and apoptosis. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2008].

NKX3-2
This gene encodes a member of the NK family of homeobox-containing proteins. The encoded protein may play a role in skeletal development. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

NCAPG
This gene encodes a subunit of the condensin complex, which is responsible for the condensation and stabilization of chromosomes during mitosis and meiosis. Phosphorylation of the encoded protein activates the condensin complex. There are pseudogenes for this gene on chromosomes 8 and 15. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012].

PPP6R3
Protein phosphatase regulatory subunits, such as SAPS3, modulate the activity of protein phosphatase catalytic subunits by restricting substrate specificity, recruiting substrates, and determining the intracellular localization of the holoenzyme. SAPS3 is a regulatory subunit for the protein phosphatase-6 catalytic subunit (PPP6C; MIM 612725) (Stefansson and Brautigan, 2006 [PubMed 16769727]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010].

EXPH5
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the synaptotagmin-like protein (Slp) family lacking a C2 domain. It contains an N-terminal synaptotagmin-like homology domain (SHD), and is a ras-related protein Rab-27B effector protein. This protein is thought to be involved in exosome secretion and intracellular vesicle trafficking. Reduced expression of this gene results in keratin filament defects. Mutations in this gene have been associated with some cases of epidermolysis bullosa, an inherited skin fragility disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

ATP5F1B
This gene encodes a subunit of mitochondrial ATP synthase. Mitochondrial ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis, utilizing an electrochemical gradient of protons across the inner membrane during oxidative phosphorylation. ATP synthase is composed of two linked multi-subunit complexes: the soluble catalytic core, F1, and the membrane-spanning component, Fo, comprising the proton channel. The catalytic portion of mitochondrial ATP synthase consists of 5 different subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and epsilon) assembled with a stoichiometry of 3 alpha, 3 beta, and a single representative of the other 3. The proton channel consists of three main subunits (a, b, c). This gene encodes the beta subunit of the catalytic core. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

LIN7A
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in generating and maintaining the asymmetric distribution of channels and receptors at the cell membrane. The encoded protein also is required for the localization of some specific channels and can be part of a protein complex that couples synaptic vesicle exocytosis to cell adhesion in the brain. [provided by RefSeq, May 2016].

GLI1
This gene encodes a member of the Kruppel family of zinc finger proteins. The encoded transcription factor is activated by the sonic hedgehog signal transduction cascade and regulates stem cell proliferation. The activity and nuclear localization of this protein is negatively regulated by p53 in an inhibitory loop. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2009].

CNOT2
This gene encodes a subunit of the multi-component CCR4-NOT complex. The CCR4-NOT complex regulates mRNA synthesis and degradation and is also thought to be involved in mRNA splicing, transport and localization. The encoded protein interacts with histone deacetylases and functions as a repressor of polymerase II transcription. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010].

GAPDH
This gene encodes a member of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase protein family. The encoded protein has been identified as a moonlighting protein based on its ability to perform mechanistically distinct functions. The product of this gene catalyzes an important energy-yielding step in carbohydrate metabolism, the reversible oxidative phosphorylation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate in the presence of inorganic phosphate and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). The encoded protein has additionally been identified to have uracil DNA glycosylase activity in the nucleus. Also, this protein contains a peptide that has antimicrobial activity against E. coli, P. aeruginosa, and C. albicans. Studies of a similar protein in mouse have assigned a variety of additional functions including nitrosylation of nuclear proteins, the regulation of mRNA stability, and acting as a transferrin receptor on the cell surface of macrophage. Many pseudogenes similar to this locus are present in the human genome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2014].

ING4
This gene encodes a tumor suppressor protein that contains a PHD-finger, which is a common motif in proteins involved in chromatin remodeling. This protein can bind TP53 and EP300/p300, a component of the histone acetyl transferase complex, suggesting its involvement in the TP53-dependent regulatory pathway. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed that encode distinct proteins. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TPI1
This gene encodes an enzyme, consisting of two identical proteins, which catalyzes the isomerization of glyceraldehydes 3-phosphate (G3P) and dihydroxy-acetone phosphate (DHAP) in glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with triosephosphate isomerase deficiency. Pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 4, 6 and 7. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009].

ENO2
This gene encodes one of the three enolase isoenzymes found in mammals. This isoenzyme, a homodimer, is found in mature neurons and cells of neuronal origin. A switch from alpha enolase to gamma enolase occurs in neural tissue during development in rats and primates. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MAN1A1
This gene encodes a class I mammalian Golgi 1,2-mannosidase which is a type II transmembrane protein. This protein catalyzes the hydrolysis of three terminal mannose residues from peptide-bound Man(9)-GlcNAc(2) oligosaccharides and belongs to family 47 of glycosyl hydrolases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2012].

SASH1
This gene encodes a scaffold protein involved in the TLR4 signaling pathway that may stimulate cytokine production and endothelial cell migration in response to invading pathogens. The encoded protein has also been described as a potential tumor suppressor that may negatively regulate proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion of cancer cells, and reduced expression of this gene has been observed in multiple human cancers. Mutations in this gene may be associated with abnormal skin pigmentation in human patients. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016].

WASF1
The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)-family, plays a critical role downstream of Rac, a Rho-family small GTPase, in regulating the actin cytoskeleton required for membrane ruffling. It has been shown to associate with an actin nucleation core Arp2/3 complex while enhancing actin polymerization in vitro. Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is a disease of the immune system, likely due to defects in regulation of actin cytoskeleton. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SLC16A10
SLC16A10 is a member of a family of plasma membrane amino acid transporters that mediate the Na(+)-independent transport of aromatic amino acids across the plasma membrane.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004].

ADGRG6
This gene, which is upregulated in human umbilical vein endothelial cells, encodes a G protein-coupled receptor. Variations in this gene can affect a person's stature. Multiple transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2009].

BRD8
The protein encoded by this gene interacts with thyroid hormone receptor in a ligand-dependent manner and enhances thyroid hormone-dependent activation from thyroid response elements. This protein contains a bromodomain and is thought to be a nuclear receptor coactivator. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode distinct isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

CCNG1
The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the cyclin family and contains the cyclin box. The encoded protein lacks the protein destabilizing (PEST) sequence that is present in other family members. Transcriptional activation of this gene can be induced by tumor protein p53. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

LIFR
This gene encodes a protein that belongs to the type I cytokine receptor family. This protein combines with a high-affinity converter subunit, gp130, to form a receptor complex that mediates the action of the leukemia inhibitory factor, a polyfunctional cytokine that is involved in cellular differentiation, proliferation and survival in the adult and the embryo. Mutations in this gene cause Schwartz-Jampel syndrome type 2, a disease belonging to the group of the bent-bone dysplasias. A translocation that involves the promoter of this gene, t(5;8)(p13;q12) with the pleiomorphic adenoma gene 1, is associated with salivary gland pleiomorphic adenoma, a common type of benign epithelial tumor of the salivary gland. Multiple splice variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2018].

BCL6
The protein encoded by this gene is a zinc finger transcription factor and contains an N-terminal POZ domain. This protein acts as a sequence-specific repressor of transcription, and has been shown to modulate the transcription of STAT-dependent IL-4 responses of B cells. This protein can interact with a variety of POZ-containing proteins that function as transcription corepressors. This gene is found to be frequently translocated and hypermutated in diffuse large-cell lymphoma (DLCL), and may be involved in the pathogenesis of DLCL. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different protein isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

TFDP2
The gene is a member of the transcription factor DP family. The encoded protein forms heterodimers with the E2F transcription factors resulting in transcriptional activation of cell cycle regulated genes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

KAT2B
CBP and p300 are large nuclear proteins that bind to many sequence-specific factors involved in cell growth and/or differentiation, including c-jun and the adenoviral oncoprotein E1A. The protein encoded by this gene associates with p300/CBP. It has in vitro and in vivo binding activity with CBP and p300, and competes with E1A for binding sites in p300/CBP. It has histone acetyl transferase activity with core histones and nucleosome core particles, indicating that this protein plays a direct role in transcriptional regulation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PFKFB4
The protein encoded by this gene is one of four bifunctional kinase/phosphatases that regulate the concentration of the glycolytic byproduct fructose-2,6-bisphosphate (F2,6BP). The encoded protein is highly expressed in cancer cells and is induced by hypoxia. This protein is essential to the survival of cancer cells under conditions of hypoxia, because it increases the amount of F2,6BP and ATP at a time when the cell cannot produce much of them. This finding suggests that this protein may be a good target for disruption in cancer cells, hopefully imperiling their survival. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015].

HES1
This protein belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix family of transcription factors. It is a transcriptional repressor of genes that require a bHLH protein for their transcription. The protein has a particular type of basic domain that contains a helix interrupting protein that binds to the N-box rather than the canonical E-box. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ECT2
The protein encoded by this gene is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor and transforming protein that is related to Rho-specific exchange factors and yeast cell cycle regulators. The expression of this gene is elevated with the onset of DNA synthesis and remains elevated during G2 and M phases. In situ hybridization analysis showed that expression is at a high level in cells undergoing mitosis in regenerating liver. Thus, this protein is expressed in a cell cycle-dependent manner during liver regeneration, and is thought to have an important role in the regulation of cytokinesis. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2017].

GBE1
The protein encoded by this gene is a glycogen branching enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of alpha-1,4-linked glucosyl units from the outer end of a glycogen chain to an alpha-1,6 position on the same or a neighboring glycogen chain. Branching of the chains is essential to increase the solubility of the glycogen molecule and, consequently, in reducing the osmotic pressure within cells. Highest level of this enzyme are found in liver and muscle. Mutations in this gene are associated with glycogen storage disease IV (also known as Andersen's disease). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CCDC88A
This gene encodes a member of the Girdin family of coiled-coil domain containing proteins. The encoded protein is an actin-binding protein that is activated by the serine/threonine kinase Akt and plays a role in cytoskeleton remodeling and cell migration. The encoded protein also enhances Akt signaling by mediating phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent activation of Akt by growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases and G protein-coupled receptors. Increased expression of this gene and phosphorylation of the encoded protein may play a role in cancer metastasis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011].

FN1
This gene encodes fibronectin, a glycoprotein present in a soluble dimeric form in plasma, and in a dimeric or multimeric form at the cell surface and in extracellular matrix. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein. Fibronectin is involved in cell adhesion and migration processes including embryogenesis, wound healing, blood coagulation, host defense, and metastasis. The gene has three regions subject to alternative splicing, with the potential to produce 20 different transcript variants, at least one of which encodes an isoform that undergoes proteolytic processing. The full-length nature of some variants has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016].

KDM3A
This gene encodes a zinc finger protein that contains a jumonji domain and may play a role in hormone-dependent transcriptional activation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009].

WNT6
The WNT gene family consists of structurally related genes which encode secreted signaling proteins. These proteins have been implicated in oncogenesis and in several developmental processes, including regulation of cell fate and patterning during embryogenesis. This gene is a member of the WNT gene family. It is overexpressed in cervical cancer cell line and strongly coexpressed with another family member, WNT10A, in colorectal cancer cell line. The gene overexpression may play key roles in carcinogenesis. This gene and the WNT10A gene are clustered in the chromosome 2q35 region. The protein encoded by this gene is 97% identical to the mouse Wnt6 protein at the amino acid level. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ID2
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the inhibitor of DNA binding family, members of which are transcriptional regulators that contain a helix-loop-helix (HLH) domain but not a basic domain. Members of the inhibitor of DNA binding family inhibit the functions of basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors in a dominant-negative manner by suppressing their heterodimerization partners through the HLH domains. This protein may play a role in negatively regulating cell differentiation. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].

PRKD3
This gene belongs to the multigene protein kinase D family of serine/threonine kinases, which bind diacylglycerol and phorbol esters. Members of this family are characterized by an N-terminal regulatory domain comprised of a tandem repeat of cysteine-rich zinc-finger motifs and a pleckstrin domain. The C-terminal region contains the catalytic domain and is distantly related to calcium-regulated kinases. Catalytic activity of this enzyme promotes its nuclear localization. This protein has been implicated in a variety of functions including negative regulation of human airway epithelial barrier formation, growth regulation of breast and prostate cancer cells, and vesicle trafficking. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015].

RHOU
This gene encodes a member of the Rho family of GTPases. This protein can activate PAK1 and JNK1, and can induce filopodium formation and stress fiber dissolution. It may also mediate the effects of WNT1 signaling in the regulation of cell morphology, cytoskeletal organization, and cell proliferation. A non-coding transcript variant of this gene results from naturally occurring read-through transcription between this locus and the neighboring DUSP5P (dual specificity phosphatase 5 pseudogene) locus.[provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011].

RGS2
Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) family members are regulatory molecules that act as GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) for G alpha subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. RGS proteins are able to deactivate G protein subunits of the Gi alpha, Go alpha and Gq alpha subtypes. They drive G proteins into their inactive GDP-bound forms. Regulator of G protein signaling 2 belongs to this family. The protein acts as a mediator of myeloid differentiation and may play a role in leukemogenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009].

NR5A2
The protein encoded by this gene is a DNA-binding zinc finger transcription factor and is a member of the fushi tarazu factor-1 subfamily of orphan nuclear receptors. The encoded protein is involved in the expression of genes for hepatitis B virus and cholesterol biosynthesis, and may be an important regulator of embryonic development. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2016].

HPCAL4
The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to human hippocalcin protein and hippocalcin like-1 protein. It also has similarity to rat neural visinin-like Ca2+-binding protein-type 1 and 2 proteins. This encoded protein may be involved in the calcium-dependent regulation of rhodopsin phosphorylation. The transcript of this gene has multiple polyadenylation sites. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013].

PADI2
This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase family of enzymes, which catalyze the post-translational deimination of proteins by converting arginine residues into citrullines in the presence of calcium ions. The family members have distinct substrate specificities and tissue-specific expression patterns. The type II enzyme is the most widely expressed family member. Known substrates for this enzyme include myelin basic protein in the central nervous system and vimentin in skeletal muscle and macrophages. This enzyme is thought to play a role in the onset and progression of neurodegenerative human disorders, including Alzheimer disease and multiple sclerosis, and it has also been implicated in glaucoma pathogenesis. This gene exists in a cluster with four other paralogous genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

KDM5B
This gene encodes a lysine-specific histone demethylase that belongs to the jumonji/ARID domain-containing family of histone demethylases. The encoded protein is capable of demethylating tri-, di- and monomethylated lysine 4 of histone H3. This protein plays a role in the transcriptional repression or certain tumor suppressor genes and is upregulated in certain cancer cells. This protein may also play a role in genome stability and DNA repair. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2016].

HMGCL
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the HMG-CoA lyase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes the final step of leucine degradation and plays a key role in ketone body formation. Mutations in this gene are associated with HMG-CoA lyase deficiency. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009].

ID3
The protein encoded by this gene is a helix-loop-helix (HLH) protein that can form heterodimers with other HLH proteins. However, the encoded protein lacks a basic DNA-binding domain and therefore inhibits the DNA binding of any HLH protein with which it interacts. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].

SLC2A1
This gene encodes a major glucose transporter in the mammalian blood-brain barrier. The encoded protein is found primarily in the cell membrane and on the cell surface, where it can also function as a receptor for human T-cell leukemia virus (HTLV) I and II. Mutations in this gene have been found in a family with paroxysmal exertion-induced dyskinesia. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2013].

DARS2
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the class-II aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase family. It is a mitochondrial enzyme that specifically aminoacylates aspartyl-tRNA. Mutations in this gene are associated with leukoencephalopathy with brainstem and spinal cord involvement and lactate elevation (LBSL). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009].

STMN1
This gene belongs to the stathmin family of genes. It encodes a ubiquitous cytosolic phosphoprotein proposed to function as an intracellular relay integrating regulatory signals of the cellular environment. The encoded protein is involved in the regulation of the microtubule filament system by destabilizing microtubules. It prevents assembly and promotes disassembly of microtubules. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009].

NEK2
This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that is involved in mitotic regulation. This protein is localized to the centrosome, and undetectable during G1 phase, but accumulates progressively throughout the S phase, reaching maximal levels in late G2 phase. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms with distinct C-termini have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011].

CENPF
This gene encodes a protein that associates with the centromere-kinetochore complex. The protein is a component of the nuclear matrix during the G2 phase of interphase. In late G2 the protein associates with the kinetochore and maintains this association through early anaphase. It localizes to the spindle midzone and the intracellular bridge in late anaphase and telophase, respectively, and is thought to be subsequently degraded. The localization of this protein suggests that it may play a role in chromosome segregation during mitotis. It is thought to form either a homodimer or heterodimer. Autoantibodies against this protein have been found in patients with cancer or graft versus host disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TNNT2
The protein encoded by this gene is the tropomyosin-binding subunit of the troponin complex, which is located on the thin filament of striated muscles and regulates muscle contraction in response to alterations in intracellular calcium ion concentration. Mutations in this gene have been associated with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as well as with dilated cardiomyopathy. Transcripts for this gene undergo alternative splicing that results in many tissue-specific isoforms, however, the full-length nature of some of these variants has not yet been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

KLF7
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Kruppel-like transcriptional regulator family. Members in this family regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and survival and contain three C2H2 zinc fingers at the C-terminus that mediate binding to GC-rich sites. This protein may contribute to the progression of type 2 diabetes by inhibiting insulin expression and secretion in pancreatic beta-cells and by deregulating adipocytokine secretion in adipocytes. A pseudogene of this gene is located on the long arm of chromosome 3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012].

MYB
This gene encodes a protein with three HTH DNA-binding domains that functions as a transcription regulator. This protein plays an essential role in the regulation of hematopoiesis. This gene may be aberrently expressed or rearranged or undergo translocation in leukemias and lymphomas, and is considered to be an oncogene. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016].

PPL
The protein encoded by this gene is a component of desmosomes and of the epidermal cornified envelope in keratinocytes. The N-terminal domain of this protein interacts with the plasma membrane and its C-terminus interacts with intermediate filaments. Through its rod domain, this protein forms complexes with envoplakin. This protein may serve as a link between the cornified envelope and desmosomes as well as intermediate filaments. AKT1/PKB, a protein kinase mediating a variety of cell growth and survival signaling processes, is reported to interact with this protein, suggesting a possible role for this protein as a localization signal in AKT1-mediated signaling. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

KLF12
Activator protein-2 alpha (AP-2 alpha) is a developmentally-regulated transcription factor and important regulator of gene expression during vertebrate development and carcinogenesis. The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Kruppel-like zinc finger protein family and can repress expression of the AP-2 alpha gene by binding to a specific site in the AP-2 alpha gene promoter. Repression by the encoded protein requires binding with a corepressor, CtBP1. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SATB2
This gene encodes a DNA binding protein that specifically binds nuclear matrix attachment regions. The encoded protein is involved in transcription regulation and chromatin remodeling. Defects in this gene are associated with isolated cleft palate and cognitive disability. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010].

CNTRL
This gene encodes a centrosomal protein required for the centrosome to function as a microtubule organizing center. The gene product is also associated with centrosome maturation. One version of stem cell myeloproliferative disorder is the result of a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 8 and 9, with the breakpoint associated with fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 and centrosomal protein 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ONECUT2
This gene encodes a member of the onecut family of transcription factors, which are characterized by a cut domain and an atypical homeodomain. The protein binds to specific DNA sequences and stimulates expression of target genes, including genes involved in melanocyte and hepatocyte differentiation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

FLVCR2
This gene encodes a member of the major facilitator superfamily. The encoded transmembrane protein is a calcium transporter. Unlike the related protein feline leukemia virus subgroup C receptor 1, the protein encoded by this locus does not bind to feline leukemia virus subgroup C envelope protein. The encoded protein may play a role in development of brain vascular endothelial cells, as mutations at this locus have been associated with proliferative vasculopathy and hydranencephaly-hydrocephaly syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Aug 2010].

BCL11A
This gene encodes a C2H2 type zinc-finger protein by its similarity to the mouse Bcl11a/Evi9 protein. The corresponding mouse gene is a common site of retroviral integration in myeloid leukemia, and may function as a leukemia disease gene, in part, through its interaction with BCL6. During hematopoietic cell differentiation, this gene is down-regulated. It is possibly involved in lymphoma pathogenesis since translocations associated with B-cell malignancies also deregulates its expression. Multiple transcript variants encoding several different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MXI1
Expression of the c-myc gene, which produces an oncogenic transcription factor, is tightly regulated in normal cells but is frequently deregulated in human cancers. The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional repressor thought to negatively regulate MYC function, and is therefore a potential tumor suppressor. This protein inhibits the transcriptional activity of MYC by competing for MAX, another basic helix-loop-helix protein that binds to MYC and is required for its function. Defects in this gene are frequently found in patients with prostate tumors. Three alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been described. Additional alternatively spliced transcripts may exist but the products of these transcripts have not been verified experimentally. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SMAD9
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the SMAD family, which transduces signals from TGF-beta family members. The encoded protein is activated by bone morphogenetic proteins and interacts with SMAD4. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010].

TEX14
The protein encoded by this gene is necessary for intercellular bridges in germ cells, which are required for spermatogenesis. Three transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011].

TRIM6
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the tripartite motif (TRIM) family. The TRIM motif includes three zinc-binding domains, a RING, B-box type 1 and B-box type 2 domain, and a coiled-coil region. The protein localizes to the nucleus, but its specific function has not been identified. This gene is mapped to chromosome 11p15, where it resides within a TRIM gene cluster. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. A read-through transcript from this gene into the downstream TRIM34 gene has also been observed, which results in a fusion product from these neighboring family members. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010].

KIF18A
KIF18A is a member of the kinesin superfamily of microtubule-associated molecular motors (see MIM 148760) that use hydrolysis of ATP to produce force and movement along microtubules (Luboshits and Benayahu, 2005 [PubMed 15878648]).[supplied by OMIM, Aug 2008].

CXCR4
This gene encodes a CXC chemokine receptor specific for stromal cell-derived factor-1. The protein has 7 transmembrane regions and is located on the cell surface. It acts with the CD4 protein to support HIV entry into cells and is also highly expressed in breast cancer cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with WHIM (warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis) syndrome. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

HNRNPA2B1
This gene belongs to the A/B subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus, some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has two repeats of quasi-RRM domains that bind to RNAs. This gene has been described to generate two alternatively spliced transcript variants which encode different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ARL4A
ADP-ribosylation factor-like 4A is a member of the ADP-ribosylation factor family of GTP-binding proteins. ARL4A is similar to ARL4C and ARL4D and each has a nuclear localization signal and an unusually high guaninine nucleotide exchange rate. ARL4A is located in both the nuclear and extranuclear cell compartments. Multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

P4HA1
This gene encodes a component of prolyl 4-hydroxylase, a key enzyme in collagen synthesis composed of two identical alpha subunits and two beta subunits. The encoded protein is one of several different types of alpha subunits and provides the major part of the catalytic site of the active enzyme. In collagen and related proteins, prolyl 4-hydroxylase catalyzes the formation of 4-hydroxyproline that is essential to the proper three-dimensional folding of newly synthesized procollagen chains. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CDKN2C
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the INK4 family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors. This protein has been shown to interact with CDK4 or CDK6, and prevent the activation of the CDK kinases, thus function as a cell growth regulator that controls cell cycle G1 progression. Ectopic expression of this gene was shown to suppress the growth of human cells in a manner that appears to correlate with the presence of a wild-type RB1 function. Studies in the knockout mice suggested the roles of this gene in regulating spermatogenesis, as well as in suppressing tumorigenesis. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene, which encode an identical protein, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RASSF8
This gene encodes a member of the Ras-assocation domain family (RASSF) of tumor suppressor proteins. This gene is essential for maintaining adherens junction function in epithelial cells and has a role in epithelial cell migration. It is a lung tumor suppressor gene candidate. A chromosomal translocation t(12;22)(p11.2;q13.3) leading to the fusion of this gene and the FBLN1 gene is found in a complex type of synpolydactyly. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2011].

LRP1
This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furin to generate 515 kDa and 85 kDa subunits that form the mature receptor (PMID: 8546712). This receptor is involved in several cellular processes, including intracellular signaling, lipid homeostasis, and clearance of apoptotic cells. In addition, the encoded protein is necessary for the alpha 2-macroglobulin-mediated clearance of secreted amyloid precursor protein and beta-amyloid, the main component of amyloid plaques found in Alzheimer patients. Expression of this gene decreases with age and has been found to be lower than controls in brain tissue from Alzheimer's disease patients. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015].

ACVR1C
ACVR1C is a type I receptor for the TGFB (see MIM 190180) family of signaling molecules. Upon ligand binding, type I receptors phosphorylate cytoplasmic SMAD transcription factors, which then translocate to the nucleus and interact directly with DNA or in complex with other transcription factors (Bondestam et al., 2001 [PubMed 12063393]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

MXD4
This gene is a member of the MAD gene family . The MAD genes encode basic helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper proteins that heterodimerize with MAX protein, forming a transcriptional repression complex. The MAD proteins compete for MAX binding with MYC, which heterodimerizes with MAX forming a transcriptional activation complex. Studies in rodents suggest that the MAD genes are tumor suppressors and contribute to the regulation of cell growth in differentiating tissues. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PAIP2B
Most mRNAs, except for histones, contain a 3-prime poly(A) tail. Poly(A)-binding protein (PABP; see MIM 604679) enhances translation by circularizing mRNA through its interaction with the translation initiation factor EIF4G1 (MIM 600495) and the poly(A) tail. Various PABP-binding proteins regulate PABP activity, including PAIP1 (MIM 605184), a translational stimulator, and PAIP2A (MIM 605604) and PAIP2B, translational inhibitors (Derry et al., 2006 [PubMed 17381337]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

ATP8A1
The P-type adenosinetriphosphatases (P-type ATPases) are a family of proteins which use the free energy of ATP hydrolysis to drive uphill transport of ions across membranes. Several subfamilies of P-type ATPases have been identified. One subfamily catalyzes transport of heavy metal ions. Another subfamily transports non-heavy metal ions (NMHI). The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the third subfamily of P-type ATPases and acts to transport amphipaths, such as phosphatidylserine. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

BTN2A2
Butyrophilin is the major protein associated with fat droplets in the milk. This gene is a member of the BTN2 subfamily of genes, which encode proteins belonging to the butyrophilin protein family. The gene is located in a cluster on chromosome 6, consisting of seven genes belonging to the expanding B7/butyrophilin-like group, a subset of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily. The encoded protein is a type I receptor glycoprotein involved in lipid, fatty-acid and sterol metabolism. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010].

SOX4
This intronless gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins, such as syndecan binding protein (syntenin). The protein may function in the apoptosis pathway leading to cell death as well as to tumorigenesis and may mediate downstream effects of parathyroid hormone (PTH) and PTH-related protein (PTHrP) in bone development. The solution structure has been resolved for the HMG-box of a similar mouse protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RUNX2
This gene is a member of the RUNX family of transcription factors and encodes a nuclear protein with an Runt DNA-binding domain. This protein is essential for osteoblastic differentiation and skeletal morphogenesis and acts as a scaffold for nucleic acids and regulatory factors involved in skeletal gene expression. The protein can bind DNA both as a monomer or, with more affinity, as a subunit of a heterodimeric complex. Two regions of potential trinucleotide repeat expansions are present in the N-terminal region of the encoded protein, and these and other mutations in this gene have been associated with the bone development disorder cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD). Transcript variants that encode different protein isoforms result from the use of alternate promoters as well as alternate splicing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016].

BMP4
This gene encodes a secreted ligand of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. Ligands of this family bind various TGF-beta receptors leading to recruitment and activation of SMAD family transcription factors that regulate gene expression. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate each subunit of the disulfide-linked homodimer. This protein regulates heart development and adipogenesis. Mutations in this gene are associated with orofacial cleft and microphthalmia in human patients. The encoded protein may also be involved in the pathology of multiple cardiovascular diseases and human cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016].

INSIG2
The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the protein product encoded by gene INSIG1. Both INSIG1 protein and this protein are endoplasmic reticulum proteins that block the processing of sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs) by binding to SREBP cleavage-activating protein (SCAP), and thus prevent SCAP from escorting SREBPs to the Golgi. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CD70
The protein encoded by this gene is a cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) ligand family. This cytokine is a ligand for TNFRSF27/CD27. It is a surface antigen on activated, but not on resting, T and B lymphocytes. It induces proliferation of costimulated T cells, enhances the generation of cytolytic T cells, and contributes to T cell activation. This cytokine is also reported to play a role in regulating B-cell activation, cytotoxic function of natural killer cells, and immunoglobulin sythesis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RTN2
This gene belongs to the family of reticulon encoding genes. Reticulons are necessary for proper generation of tubular endoplasmic reticulum and likely play a role in intracellular vesicular transport. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. Mutations at this locus have been associated with autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia-12. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012].

STK35
The protein encoded by this gene is a kinase that is predominantly found in the nucleus. However, it can interact with PDLIM1/CLP-36 in the cytoplasm and localize to actin stress fibers. The encoded protein may be a regulator of actin stress fibers in nonmuscle cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

FLRT3
This gene encodes a member of the fibronectin leucine rich transmembrane protein (FLRT) family. FLRTs may function in cell adhesion and/or receptor signalling. Their protein structures resemble small leucine-rich proteoglycans found in the extracellular matrix. This gene is expressed in many tissues. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010].

OVOL2
This gene encodes a member of the evolutionarily conserved ovo-like protein family. Mammalian members of this family contain a single zinc finger domain composed of a tetrad of C2H2 zinc fingers with variable N- and C-terminal extensions that contain intrinsically disordered domains. Members of this family are involved in epithelial development and differentiation. Knockout of this gene in mouse results in early embryonic lethality with phenotypes that include neurectoderm expansion, impaired vascularization, and heart anomalies. In humans, allelic variants of this gene have been associated with posterior polymorphous corneal dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016].

BFSP1
This gene encodes a lens-specific intermediate filament-like protein named filensin. The encoded protein is expressed in lens fiber cells after differentiation has begun. This protein functions as a component of the beaded filament which is a cytoskeletal structure found in lens fiber cells. Mutations in this gene are the cause of autosomal recessive cortical juvenile-onset cataract. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013].

AMOT
This gene belongs to the motin family of angiostatin binding proteins characterized by conserved coiled-coil domains and C-terminal PDZ binding motifs. The encoded protein is expressed predominantly in endothelial cells of capillaries as well as larger vessels of the placenta where it may mediate the inhibitory effect of angiostatin on tube formation and the migration of endothelial cells toward growth factors during the formation of new blood vessels. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

IFI6
This gene was first identified as one of the many genes induced by interferon. The encoded protein may play a critical role in the regulation of apoptosis. A minisatellite that consists of 26 repeats of a 12 nucleotide repeating element resembling the mammalian splice donor consensus sequence begins near the end of the second exon. Alternatively spliced transcript variants that encode different isoforms by using the two downstream repeat units as splice donor sites have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

HNRNPH2
This gene belongs to the subfamily of ubiquitously expressed heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs). The hnRNPs are RNA binding proteins and they complex with heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA). These proteins are associated with pre-mRNAs in the nucleus and appear to influence pre-mRNA processing and other aspects of mRNA metabolism and transport. While all of the hnRNPs are present in the nucleus some seem to shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The hnRNP proteins have distinct nucleic acid binding properties. The protein encoded by this gene has three repeats of quasi-RRM domains that binds to RNAs. It is very similar to the family member HNRPH1. This gene is thought to be involved in Fabray disease and X-linked agammaglobulinemia phenotype. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding the same protein. Read-through transcription between this locus and the ribosomal protein L36a gene has been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011].

BCL11B
This gene encodes a C2H2-type zinc finger protein and is closely related to BCL11A, a gene whose translocation may be associated with B-cell malignancies. Although the specific function of this gene has not been determined, the encoded protein is known to be a transcriptional repressor, and is regulated by the NURD nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylase complex. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013].

SYNGR3
This gene encodes an integral membrane protein. The exact function of this protein is unclear, but studies of a similar murine protein suggest that it is a synaptic vesicle protein that also interacts with the dopamine transporter. The gene product belongs to the synaptogyrin gene family. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010].

TNFRSF19
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptor is highly expressed during embryonic development. It has been shown to interact with TRAF family members, and to activate JNK signaling pathway when overexpressed in cells. This receptor is capable of inducing apoptosis by a caspase-independent mechanism, and it is thought to play an essential role in embryonic development. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

GNAI1
Guanine nucleotide binding proteins are heterotrimeric signal-transducing molecules consisting of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits. The alpha subunit binds guanine nucleotide, can hydrolyze GTP, and can interact with other proteins. The protein encoded by this gene represents the alpha subunit of an inhibitory complex. The encoded protein is part of a complex that responds to beta-adrenergic signals by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012].

MTERF1
This gene encodes a mitochondrial transcription termination factor. This protein participates in attenuating transcription from the mitochondrial genome; this attenuation allows higher levels of expression of 16S ribosomal RNA relative to the tRNA gene downstream. The product of this gene has three leucine zipper motifs bracketed by two basic domains that are all required for DNA binding. There is evidence that, for this protein, the zippers participate in intramolecular interactions that establish the three-dimensional structure required for DNA binding. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SPINK2
This gene encodes a member of the family of serine protease inhibitors of the Kazal type (SPINK). The encoded protein acts as a trypsin and acrosin inhibitor in the genital tract and is localized in the spermatozoa. The protein has been associated with the progression of lymphomas. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012].

PAICS
This gene encodes a bifunctional enzyme containing phosphoribosylaminoimidazole carboxylase activity in its N-terminal region and phosphoribosylaminoimidazole succinocarboxamide synthetase in its C-terminal region. It catalyzes steps 6 and 7 of purine biosynthesis. The gene is closely linked and divergently transcribed with a locus that encodes an enzyme in the same pathway, and transcription of the two genes is coordinately regulated. The human genome contains several pseudogenes of this gene. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

BAIAP2L2
The protein encoded by this gene binds phosphoinositides and promotes the formation of planar or curved membrane structures. The encoded protein is found in RAB13-positive vesicles and at intercellular contacts with the plasma membrane. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2012].

DOCK4
This gene is a member of the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) family and encodes a protein with a DHR-1 (CZH-1) domain, a DHR-2 (CZH-2) domain and an SH3 domain. This membrane-associated, cytoplasmic protein functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor and is involved in regulation of adherens junctions between cells. Mutations in this gene have been associated with ovarian, prostate, glioma, and colorectal cancers. Alternatively spliced variants which encode different protein isoforms have been described, but only one has been fully characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PODXL
This gene encodes a member of the sialomucin protein family. The encoded protein was originally identified as an important component of glomerular podocytes. Podocytes are highly differentiated epithelial cells with interdigitating foot processes covering the outer aspect of the glomerular basement membrane. Other biological activities of the encoded protein include: binding in a membrane protein complex with Na+/H+ exchanger regulatory factor to intracellular cytoskeletal elements, playing a role in hematopoetic cell differentiation, and being expressed in vascular endothelium cells and binding to L-selectin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

FOXP2
This gene encodes a member of the forkhead/winged-helix (FOX) family of transcription factors. It is expressed in fetal and adult brain as well as in several other organs such as the lung and gut. The protein product contains a FOX DNA-binding domain and a large polyglutamine tract and is an evolutionarily conserved transcription factor, which may bind directly to approximately 300 to 400 gene promoters in the human genome to regulate the expression of a variety of genes. This gene is required for proper development of speech and language regions of the brain during embryogenesis, and may be involved in a variety of biological pathways and cascades that may ultimately influence language development. Mutations in this gene cause speech-language disorder 1 (SPCH1), also known as autosomal dominant speech and language disorder with orofacial dyspraxia. Multiple alternative transcripts encoding different isoforms have been identified in this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2010].

CHN1
This gene encodes GTPase-activating protein for ras-related p21-rac and a phorbol ester receptor. It is predominantly expressed in neurons, and plays an important role in neuronal signal-transduction mechanisms. Mutations in this gene are associated with Duane's retraction syndrome 2 (DURS2). Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2011].

CGNL1
This gene encodes a member of the cingulin family. The encoded protein localizes to both adherens and tight cell-cell junctions and mediates junction assembly and maintenance by regulating the activity of the small GTPases RhoA and Rac1. Heterozygous chromosomal rearrangements resulting in association of the promoter for this gene with the aromatase gene are a cause of aromatase excess syndrome. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011].

TTBK2
This gene encodes a serine-threonine kinase that putatively phosphorylates tau and tubulin proteins. Mutations in this gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 (SCA11); a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive ataxia and atrophy of the cerebellum and brainstem. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2009].

STARD8
This gene encodes a member of a subfamily of Rho GTPase activating proteins that contain a steroidogenic acute regulatory protein related lipid transfer domain. The encoded protein localizes to focal adhesions and may be involved in regulating cell morphology. This protein may also function as a tumor suppressor. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

ATP8B3
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the family of P-type cation transport ATPases, and to the subfamily of aminophospholipid-transporting ATPases. The aminophospholipid translocases transport phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylethanolamine from one side of a bilayer to the other. This gene encodes member 3 of phospholipid-transporting ATPase 8B; other members of this protein family are located on chromosomes 1, 15 and 18. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012].

H19
This gene is located in an imprinted region of chromosome 11 near the insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) gene. This gene is only expressed from the maternally-inherited chromosome, whereas IGF2 is only expressed from the paternally-inherited chromosome. The product of this gene is a long non-coding RNA which functions as a tumor suppressor. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome and Wilms tumorigenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015].

SYNE1
This gene encodes a spectrin repeat containing protein expressed in skeletal and smooth muscle, and peripheral blood lymphocytes, that localizes to the nuclear membrane. Mutations in this gene have been associated with autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia 8, also referred to as autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxia type 1 or recessive ataxia of Beauce. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

NFATC1
The product of this gene is a component of the nuclear factor of activated T cells DNA-binding transcription complex. This complex consists of at least two components: a preexisting cytosolic component that translocates to the nucleus upon T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, and an inducible nuclear component. Proteins belonging to this family of transcription factors play a central role in inducible gene transcription during immune response. The product of this gene is an inducible nuclear component. It functions as a major molecular target for the immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been identified for this gene. Different isoforms of this protein may regulate inducible expression of different cytokine genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013].

SLC6A6
This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that is a member of a family of sodium and chloride-ion dependent transporters. The encoded protein transports taurine and beta-alanine. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 21. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013].

RHPN2
This gene encodes a member of the rhophilin family of Ras-homologous (Rho)-GTPase binding proteins. The encoded protein binds both GTP- and GDP-bound RhoA and GTP-bound RhoB and may be involved in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009].

INPP5K
This gene encodes a protein with 5-phosphatase activity toward polyphosphate inositol. The protein localizes to the cytosol in regions lacking actin stress fibers. It is thought that this protein may negatively regulate the actin cytoskeleton. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008].

REEP2
This gene encodes a member of the receptor expression enhancing protein family. Studies of a related gene in mouse suggest that the encoded protein is found in the cell membrane and enhances the function of sweet taste receptors. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012].

TERF2
This gene encodes a telomere specific protein, TERF2, which is a component of the telomere nucleoprotein complex. This protein is present at telomeres in metaphase of the cell cycle, is a second negative regulator of telomere length and plays a key role in the protective activity of telomeres. While having similar telomere binding activity and domain organization, TERF2 differs from TERF1 in that its N terminus is basic rather than acidic. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TESMIN
Metallothionein proteins are highly conserved low-molecular-weight cysteine-rich proteins that are induced by and bind to heavy metal ions and have no enzymatic activity. They may play a central role in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation and are involved in spermatogenesis. This gene encodes a metallothionein-like protein which has been shown to be expressed differentially in mouse testis and ovary. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MYH10
This gene encodes a member of the myosin superfamily. The protein represents a conventional non-muscle myosin; it should not be confused with the unconventional myosin-10 (MYO10). Myosins are actin-dependent motor proteins with diverse functions including regulation of cytokinesis, cell motility, and cell polarity. Mutations in this gene have been associated with May-Hegglin anomaly and developmental defects in brain and heart. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011].

KRAS
This gene, a Kirsten ras oncogene homolog from the mammalian ras gene family, encodes a protein that is a member of the small GTPase superfamily. A single amino acid substitution is responsible for an activating mutation. The transforming protein that results is implicated in various malignancies, including lung adenocarcinoma, mucinous adenoma, ductal carcinoma of the pancreas and colorectal carcinoma. Alternative splicing leads to variants encoding two isoforms that differ in the C-terminal region. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RNF122
The encoded protein contains a RING finger, a motif present in a variety of functionally distinct proteins and known to be involved in protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions. The encoded protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and golgi apparatus, and may be associated with cell viability. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013].

LOXL2
This gene encodes a member of the lysyl oxidase gene family. The prototypic member of the family is essential to the biogenesis of connective tissue, encoding an extracellular copper-dependent amine oxidase that catalyses the first step in the formation of crosslinks in collagens and elastin. A highly conserved amino acid sequence at the C-terminus end appears to be sufficient for amine oxidase activity, suggesting that each family member may retain this function. The N-terminus is poorly conserved and may impart additional roles in developmental regulation, senescence, tumor suppression, cell growth control, and chemotaxis to each member of the family. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TSPAN2
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2015].

SORT1
This gene encodes a member of the VPS10-related sortilin family of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed by furin to generate the mature receptor. This receptor plays a role in the trafficking of different proteins to either the cell surface, or subcellular compartments such as lysosomes and endosomes. Expression levels of this gene may influence the risk of myocardial infarction in human patients. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015].

LDHA
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the conversion of L-lactate and NAD to pyruvate and NADH in the final step of anaerobic glycolysis. The protein is found predominantly in muscle tissue and belongs to the lactate dehydrogenase family. Mutations in this gene have been linked to exertional myoglobinuria. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. The human genome contains several non-transcribed pseudogenes of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008].

CABLES1
This gene encodes a protein involved in regulation of the cell cycle through interactions with several cyclin-dependent kinases. One study (PMID: 16177568) reported aberrant splicing of transcripts from this gene which results in removal of the cyclin binding domain only in human cancer cells, and reduction in gene expression was shown in colorectal cancers (PMID: 17982127).Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012].

LRP4
This gene encodes a member of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein family. The encoded protein may be a regulator of Wnt signaling. Mutations in this gene are associated with Cenani-Lenz syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

LCA5
This gene encodes a protein that is thought to be involved in centrosomal or ciliary functions. Mutations in this gene cause Leber congenital amaurosis type V. Alternatively spliced transcript variants are described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009].

PHF21A
The PHF21A gene encodes BHC80, a component of a BRAF35 (MIM 605535)/histone deacetylase (HDAC; see MIM 601241) complex (BHC) that mediates repression of neuron-specific genes through the cis-regulatory element known as repressor element-1 (RE1) or neural restrictive silencer (NRS) (Hakimi et al., 2002 [PubMed 12032298]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010].

AVIL
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the gelsolin/villin family of actin regulatory proteins. This protein has structural similarity to villin. It binds actin and may play a role in the development of neuronal cells that form ganglia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

EGLN1
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the post-translational formation of 4-hydroxyproline in hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) alpha proteins. HIF is a transcriptional complex that plays a central role in mammalian oxygen homeostasis. This protein functions as a cellular oxygen sensor, and under normal oxygen concentration, modification by prolyl hydroxylation is a key regulatory event that targets HIF subunits for proteasomal destruction via the von Hippel-Lindau ubiquitylation complex. Mutations in this gene are associated with erythrocytosis familial type 3 (ECYT3). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2009].

SP110
The nuclear body is a multiprotein complex that may have a role in the regulation of gene transcription. This gene is a member of the SP100/SP140 family of nuclear body proteins and encodes a leukocyte-specific nuclear body component. The protein can function as an activator of gene transcription and may serve as a nuclear hormone receptor coactivator. In addition, it has been suggested that the protein may play a role in ribosome biogenesis and in the induction of myeloid cell differentiation. Alternative splicing has been observed for this gene and three transcript variants, encoding distinct isoforms, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

NKX2-1
This gene encodes a protein initially identified as a thyroid-specific transcription factor. The encoded protein binds to the thyroglobulin promoter and regulates the expression of thyroid-specific genes but has also been shown to regulate the expression of genes involved in morphogenesis. Mutations and deletions in this gene are associated with benign hereditary chorea, choreoathetosis, congenital hypothyroidism, and neonatal respiratory distress, and may be associated with thyroid cancer. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. This gene shares the symbol/alias 'TTF1' with another gene, transcription termination factor 1, which plays a role in ribosomal gene transcription. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2014].

TANK
The TRAF (tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor) family of proteins associate with and transduce signals from members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. The protein encoded by this gene is found in the cytoplasm and can bind to TRAF1, TRAF2, or TRAF3, thereby inhibiting TRAF function by sequestering the TRAFs in a latent state in the cytoplasm. For example, the protein encoded by this gene can block TRAF2 binding to LMP1, the Epstein-Barr virus transforming protein, and inhibit LMP1-mediated NF-kappa-B activation. Three alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010].

MYC
This gene is a proto-oncogene and encodes a nuclear phosphoprotein that plays a role in cell cycle progression, apoptosis and cellular transformation. The encoded protein forms a heterodimer with the related transcription factor MAX. This complex binds to the E box DNA consensus sequence and regulates the transcription of specific target genes. Amplification of this gene is frequently observed in numerous human cancers. Translocations involving this gene are associated with Burkitt lymphoma and multiple myeloma in human patients. There is evidence to show that translation initiates both from an upstream, in-frame non-AUG (CUG) and a downstream AUG start site, resulting in the production of two isoforms with distinct N-termini. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

TAF8
This gene encodes one of several TATA-binding protein (TBP)-associated factors (TAFs), which are integral subunits of the general transcription factor complex TFIID. TFIID recognizes the core promoter of many genes and nucleates the assembly of a transcription preinitiation complex containing RNA polymerase II and other initiation factors. The protein encoded by this gene contains an H4-like histone fold domain, and interacts with several subunits of TFIID including TBP and the histone-fold protein TAF10. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described, but their biological validity has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

LRRC32
This gene encodes a type I membrane protein which contains 20 leucine-rich repeats. Alterations in the chromosomal region 11q13-11q14 are involved in several pathologies. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SORL1
This gene encodes a mosaic protein that belongs to at least two families: the vacuolar protein sorting 10 (VPS10) domain-containing receptor family, and the low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) family. The encoded protein also contains fibronectin type III repeats and an epidermal growth factor repeat. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate the mature receptor, which likely plays roles in endocytosis and sorting. Mutations in this gene may be associated with Alzheimer's disease. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016].

SIX3
This gene encodes a member of the sine oculis homeobox transcription factor family. The encoded protein plays a role in eye development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with holoprosencephaly type 2. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009].

LRPPRC
This gene encodes a leucine-rich protein that has multiple pentatricopeptide repeats (PPR). The precise role of this protein is unknown but studies suggest it may play a role in cytoskeletal organization, vesicular transport, or in transcriptional regulation of both nuclear and mitochondrial genes. The protein localizes primarily to mitochondria and is predicted to have an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence. Mutations in this gene are associated with the French-Canadian type of Leigh syndrome. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012].

SLC40A1
The protein encoded by this gene is a cell membrane protein that may be involved in iron export from duodenal epithelial cells. Defects in this gene are a cause of hemochromatosis type 4 (HFE4). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

APH1B
This gene encodes a multi-pass transmembrane protein that is a functional component of the gamma-secretase complex, which also contains presenilin and nicastrin. This protein represents a stabilizing cofactor for the presenilin holoprotein in the complex. The gamma-secretase complex catalyzes the cleavage of integral proteins such as notch receptors and beta-amyloid precursor protein. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

HERC3
This gene encodes a member the HERC ubiquitin ligase family. The encoded protein is located in the cytosol and binds ubiquitin via a HECT domain. Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal and gastric carcinomas. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012].

PDE5A
This gene encodes a cGMP-binding, cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase, a member of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase family. This phosphodiesterase specifically hydrolyzes cGMP to 5'-GMP. It is involved in the regulation of intracellular concentrations of cyclic nucleotides and is important for smooth muscle relaxation in the cardiovascular system. Alternative splicing of this gene results in three transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CCNG2
The eukaryotic cell cycle is governed by cyclin-dependent protein kinases (CDKs) whose activities are regulated by cyclins and CDK inhibitors. The 8 species of cyclins reported in mammals, cyclins A through H, share a conserved amino acid sequence of about 90 residues called the cyclin box. The amino acid sequence of cyclin G is well conserved among mammals. The nucleotide sequence of cyclin G1 and cyclin G2 are 53% identical. Unlike cyclin G1, cyclin G2 contains a C-terminal PEST protein destabilization motif, suggesting that cyclin G2 expression is tightly regulated through the cell cycle. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ETV6
This gene encodes an ETS family transcription factor. The product of this gene contains two functional domains: a N-terminal pointed (PNT) domain that is involved in protein-protein interactions with itself and other proteins, and a C-terminal DNA-binding domain. Gene knockout studies in mice suggest that it is required for hematopoiesis and maintenance of the developing vascular network. This gene is known to be involved in a large number of chromosomal rearrangements associated with leukemia and congenital fibrosarcoma. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2008].

ETNK1
This gene encodes an ethanolamine kinase, which functions in the first committed step of the phosphatidylethanolamine synthesis pathway. This cytosolic enzyme is specific for ethanolamine and exhibits negligible kinase activity on choline. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DUSP6
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the dual specificity protein phosphatase subfamily. These phosphatases inactivate their target kinases by dephosphorylating both the phosphoserine/threonine and phosphotyrosine residues. They negatively regulate members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase superfamily (MAPK/ERK, SAPK/JNK, p38), which are associated with cellular proliferation and differentiation. Different members of the family of dual specificity phosphatases show distinct substrate specificities for various MAP kinases, different tissue distribution and subcellular localization, and different modes of inducibility of their expression by extracellular stimuli. This gene product inactivates ERK2, is expressed in a variety of tissues with the highest levels in heart and pancreas, and unlike most other members of this family, is localized in the cytoplasm. Mutations in this gene have been associated with congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2014].

PDX1
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional activator of several genes, including insulin, somatostatin, glucokinase, islet amyloid polypeptide, and glucose transporter type 2. The encoded nuclear protein is involved in the early development of the pancreas and plays a major role in glucose-dependent regulation of insulin gene expression. Defects in this gene are a cause of pancreatic agenesis, which can lead to early-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), as well as maturity onset diabetes of the young type 4 (MODY4). [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

MAP3K12
This gene encodes a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. This kinase contains a leucine-zipper domain and is predominately expressed in neuronal cells. The phosphorylation state of this kinase in synaptic terminals was shown to be regulated by membrane depolarization via calcineurin. This kinase forms heterodimers with leucine zipper containing transcription factors, such as cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) and MYC, and thus may play a regulatory role in PKA or retinoic acid induced neuronal differentiation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different proteins have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010].

STON2
This gene encodes a protein which is a membrane protein involved in regulating endocytotic complexes. The protein product is described as one of the clathrin-associated sorting proteins, adaptor molecules which ensure specific proteins are internalized. The encoded protein has also been shown to participate in synaptic vesicle recycling through interaction with synaptotagmin 1 required for neurotransmission. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012].

FBLN5
The protein encoded by this gene is a secreted, extracellular matrix protein containing an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) motif and calcium-binding EGF-like domains. It promotes adhesion of endothelial cells through interaction of integrins and the RGD motif. It is prominently expressed in developing arteries but less so in adult vessels. However, its expression is reinduced in balloon-injured vessels and atherosclerotic lesions, notably in intimal vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. Therefore, the protein encoded by this gene may play a role in vascular development and remodeling. Defects in this gene are a cause of autosomal dominant cutis laxa, autosomal recessive cutis laxa type I (CL type I), and age-related macular degeneration type 3 (ARMD3). [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

IGF1R
This receptor binds insulin-like growth factor with a high affinity. It has tyrosine kinase activity. The insulin-like growth factor I receptor plays a critical role in transformation events. Cleavage of the precursor generates alpha and beta subunits. It is highly overexpressed in most malignant tissues where it functions as an anti-apoptotic agent by enhancing cell survival. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2014].

UQCRC2
The protein encoded by this gene is located in the mitochondrion, where it is part of the ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase complex (also known as complex III). This complex constitutes a part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Defects in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial complex III deficiency nuclear type 5. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015].

GNAL
This gene encodes a stimulatory G protein alpha subunit which mediates odorant signaling in the olfactory epithelium. This protein couples dopamine type 1 receptors and adenosine A2A receptors and is widely expressed in the central nervous system. Mutations in this gene have been associated with dystonia 25 and this gene is located in a susceptibility region for bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2013].

WRAP53
This gene encodes an essential component of the telomerase holoenzyme complex, a ribonucleoprotein complex required for telomere synthesis. This protein is enriched in Cajal bodies, nuclear sites of RNP processing that are important for telomerase function. It interacts with dyskerin, TERT and TERC, other components of active telomerase, and with small Cajal body RNAs (scaRNAs), which are involved in modifying splicing RNAs. This mRNA also functions as a p53 antisense transcript, that regulates endogenous p53 mRNA levels and further induction of p53 protein by targeting the 5' untranslated region of p53 mRNA. Alternatively spliced transcript variants which differ only in the 5' UTR have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2011].

RAB40B
The protein encoded by this gene has similarity to a yeast protein which suggests a role of the gene product in regulating secretory vesicles. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

NARF
Several proteins have been found to be prenylated and methylated at their carboxyl-terminal ends. Prenylation was initially believed to be important only for membrane attachment. However, another role for prenylation appears to be its importance in protein-protein interactions. The only nuclear proteins known to be prenylated in mammalian cells are prelamin A- and B-type lamins. Prelamin A is farnesylated and carboxymethylated on the cysteine residue of a carboxyl-terminal CaaX motif. This post-translationally modified cysteine residue is removed from prelamin A when it is endoproteolytically processed into mature lamin A. The protein encoded by this gene binds to the prenylated prelamin A carboxyl-terminal tail domain. It may be a component of a prelamin A endoprotease complex. The encoded protein is located in the nucleus, where it partially colocalizes with the nuclear lamina. It shares limited sequence similarity with iron-only bacterial hydrogenases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene, including one with a novel exon that is generated by RNA editing. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

WDR45B
This gene encodes a member of the WIPI or SVP1 family of WD40 repeat-containing proteins. The protein contains seven WD40 repeats that are thought to fold into a beta-propeller structure that mediates protein-protein interactions, and a conserved motif for interaction with phospholipids. The human genome contains several pseudogenes of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RNF165
Encoded in regions involved in pericentric inversions in patients with bipolar affective disorder. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TNFRSF11A
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the TNF-receptor superfamily. This receptors can interact with various TRAF family proteins, through which this receptor induces the activation of NF-kappa B and MAPK8/JNK. This receptor and its ligand are important regulators of the interaction between T cells and dendritic cells. This receptor is also an essential mediator for osteoclast and lymph node development. Mutations at this locus have been associated with familial expansile osteolysis, autosomal recessive osteopetrosis, and Paget disease of bone. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described for this locus. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012].

PADI3
This gene encodes a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase family of enzymes, which catalyze the post-translational deimination of proteins by converting arginine residues into citrullines in the presence of calcium ions. The family members have distinct substrate specificities and tissue-specific expression patterns. The type III enzyme modulates hair structural proteins, such as filaggrin in the hair follicle and trichohyalin in the inner root sheath, during hair follicle formation. Together with the type I enzyme, this enzyme may also play a role in terminal differentiation of the epidermis. This gene exists in a cluster with four other paralogous genes. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PRKACB
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the serine/threonine protein kinase family. The encoded protein is a catalytic subunit of cAMP (cyclic AMP)-dependent protein kinase, which mediates signalling though cAMP. cAMP signaling is important to a number of processes, including cell proliferaton and differentiation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

IGSF3
The protein encoded by this gene is an immunoglobulin-like membrane protein containing several V-type Ig-like domains. A mutation in this gene has been associated with bilateral nasolacrimal duct obstruction (LCDD). [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2016].

DCAF6
The protein encoded by this gene is a ligand-dependent coactivator of nuclear receptors, including nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and androgen receptor (AR). The encoded protein and DNA damage binding protein 2 (DDB2) may act as tumor promoters and tumor suppressors, respectively, by regulating the level of androgen receptor in prostate tissues. In addition, this protein can act with glucocorticoid receptor to promote human papillomavirus gene expression. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2017].

CRABP2
This gene encodes a member of the retinoic acid (RA, a form of vitamin A) binding protein family and lipocalin/cytosolic fatty-acid binding protein family. The protein is a cytosol-to-nuclear shuttling protein, which facilitates RA binding to its cognate receptor complex and transfer to the nucleus. It is involved in the retinoid signaling pathway, and is associated with increased circulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010].

HMCN1
This gene encodes a large extracellular member of the immunoglobulin superfamily. A similar protein in C. elegans forms long, fine tracks at specific extracellular sites that are involved in many processes such as stabilization of the germline syncytium, anchorage of mechanosensory neurons to the epidermis, and organization of hemidesmosomes in the epidermis. Mutations in this gene may be associated with age-related macular degeneration. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RFX5
A lack of MHC-II expression results in a severe immunodeficiency syndrome called MHC-II deficiency, or the bare lymphocyte syndrome (BLS; MIM 209920). At least 4 complementation groups have been identified in B-cell lines established from patients with BLS. The molecular defects in complementation groups B, C, and D all lead to a deficiency in RFX, a nuclear protein complex that binds to the X box of MHC-II promoters. The lack of RFX binding activity in complementation group C results from mutations in the RFX5 gene encoding the 75-kD subunit of RFX (Steimle et al., 1995). RFX5 is the fifth member of the growing family of DNA-binding proteins sharing a novel and highly characteristic DNA-binding domain called the RFX motif. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found but the full-length natures of only two have been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DYRK3
This gene product belongs to the DYRK family of dual-specificity protein kinases that catalyze autophosphorylation on serine/threonine and tyrosine residues. The members of this family share structural similarity, however, differ in their substrate specificity, suggesting their involvement in different cellular functions. The encoded protein has been shown to autophosphorylate on tyrosine residue and catalyze phosphorylation of histones H3 and H2B in vitro. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

EFNA3
This gene encodes a member of the ephrin (EPH) family. The ephrins and EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and have been implicated in mediating developmental events, especially in the nervous system and in erythropoiesis. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. This gene encodes an EFNA class ephrin. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PPFIA4
PPFIA4, or liprin-alpha-4, belongs to the liprin-alpha gene family. See liprin-alpha-1 (LIP1, or PPFIA1; MIM 611054) for background on liprins.[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

ATP6V1C2
This gene encodes a component of vacuolar ATPase (V-ATPase), a multisubunit enzyme that mediates acidification of eukaryotic intracellular organelles. V-ATPase dependent organelle acidification is necessary for such intracellular processes as protein sorting, zymogen activation, receptor-mediated endocytosis, and synaptic vesicle proton gradient generation. V-ATPase is composed of a cytosolic V1 domain and a transmembrane V0 domain. The V1 domain consists of three A,three B, and two G subunits, as well as a C, D, E, F, and H subunit. The V1 domain contains the ATP catalytic site. This gene encodes alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different V1 domain C subunit isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

NPHP1
This gene encodes a protein with src homology domain 3 (SH3) patterns. This protein interacts with Crk-associated substrate, and it appears to function in the control of cell division, as well as in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion signaling, likely as part of a multifunctional complex localized in actin- and microtubule-based structures. Mutations in this gene cause familial juvenile nephronophthisis type 1, a kidney disorder involving both tubules and glomeruli. Defects in this gene are also associated with Senior-Loken syndrome type 1, also referred to as juvenile nephronophthisis with Leber amaurosis, which is characterized by kidney and eye disease, and with Joubert syndrome type 4, which is characterized by cerebellar ataxia, oculomotor apraxia, psychomotor delay and neonatal breathing abnormalities, sometimes including retinal dystrophy and renal disease. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ABCA12
The membrane-associated protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intracellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, and White). This encoded protein is a member of the ABC1 subfamily, which is the only major ABC subfamily found exclusively in multicellular eukaryotes. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ITGA9
This gene encodes an alpha integrin. Integrins are heterodimeric integral membrane glycoproteins composed of an alpha chain and a beta chain that mediate cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesion. The protein encoded by this gene, when bound to the beta 1 chain, forms an integrin that is a receptor for VCAM1, cytotactin and osteopontin. Expression of this gene has been found to be upregulated in small cell lung cancers. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

IL17RD
This gene encodes a membrane protein belonging to the interleukin-17 receptor (IL-17R) protein family. The encoded protein is a component of the interleukin-17 receptor signaling complex, and the interaction between this protein and IL-17R does not require the interleukin. The gene product also affects fibroblast growth factor signaling, inhibiting or stimulating growth through MAPK/ERK signaling. Alternate splicing generates multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2016].

BOC
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the immunoglobulin/fibronectin type III repeat family. It is a component of a cell-surface receptor complex that mediates cell-cell interactions between muscle precursor cells, and promotes myogenic differentiation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2014].

CORIN
This gene encodes a member of the type II transmembrane serine protease class of the trypsin superfamily. Members of this family are composed of multiple structurally distinct domains. The encoded protein converts pro-atrial natriuretic peptide to biologically active atrial natriuretic peptide, a cardiac hormone that regulates blood volume and pressure. This protein may also function as a pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide convertase. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013].

SCD5
Stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD; EC 1.14.99.5) is an integral membrane protein of the endoplasmic reticulum that catalyzes the formation of monounsaturated fatty acids from saturated fatty acids. SCD may be a key regulator of energy metabolism with a role in obesity and dislipidemia. Four SCD isoforms, Scd1 through Scd4, have been identified in mouse. In contrast, only 2 SCD isoforms, SCD1 (MIM 604031) and SCD5, have been identified in human. SCD1 shares about 85% amino acid identity with all 4 mouse SCD isoforms, as well as with rat Scd1 and Scd2. In contrast, SCD5 shares limited homology with the rodent SCDs and appears to be unique to primates (Wang et al., 2005 [PubMed 15907797]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

SNCA
Alpha-synuclein is a member of the synuclein family, which also includes beta- and gamma-synuclein. Synucleins are abundantly expressed in the brain and alpha- and beta-synuclein inhibit phospholipase D2 selectively. SNCA may serve to integrate presynaptic signaling and membrane trafficking. Defects in SNCA have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease. SNCA peptides are a major component of amyloid plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Alternatively spliced transcripts encoding different isoforms have been identified for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2016].

SSBP2
This gene encodes a subunit of a protein complex that interacts with single-stranded DNA and is involved in the DNA damage response and maintenance of genome stability. The encoded protein may also play a role in telomere repair. A variant of this gene may be associated with survival in human glioblastoma patients. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2016].

IQGAP2
This gene encodes a member of the IQGAP family. The encoded protein contains three IQ domains, one calponin homology domain, one Ras-GAP domain and one WW domain. This protein interacts with components of the cytoskeleton, with cell adhesion molecules, and with several signaling molecules to regulate cell morphology and motility. It also acts as a tumor suppressor and has been found to play a role in regulating innate antiviral responses. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2017].

ARHGAP18
ARHGAP18 belongs to a family of Rho (see MIM 165390) GTPase-activating proteins that modulate cell signaling (Potkin et al., 2009 [PubMed 19065146]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2010].

SLC2A12
SLC2A12 belongs to a family of transporters that catalyze the uptake of sugars through facilitated diffusion (Rogers et al., 2002). This family of transporters show conservation of 12 transmembrane helices as well as functionally significant amino acid residues (Joost and Thorens, 2001 [PubMed 11780753]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

ZNF182
Zinc-finger proteins bind nucleic acids and play important roles in various cellular functions, including cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. This gene encodes a zinc finger protein, and belongs to the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family. It may be involved in transcriptional regulation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

ZMYM3
This gene is located on the X chromosome and is subject to X inactivation. It is highly conserved in vertebrates and most abundantly expressed in the brain. The encoded protein is a component of histone deacetylase-containing multiprotein complexes that function through modifying chromatin structure to keep genes silent. A chromosomal translocation (X;13) involving this gene is associated with X-linked cognitive disability. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010].

FRMPD3
This gene encodes a protein that contains a PDZ (post synaptic density protein (PSD95), Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor (Dlg1), and zonula occludens-1 protein (zo-1) domain at the N-terminus followed by a FERM domain. The encoded protein is involved in signal transduction. The PDZ domain is thought to function in protein-protein interactions, mainly by binding to specific C-terminal peptides of other proteins. The FERM domain is found in proteins that are localized to the plasma membrane and are associated with the cytoskeleton. [provided by RefSeq, May 2017].

GPC3
Cell surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans are composed of a membrane-associated protein core substituted with a variable number of heparan sulfate chains. Members of the glypican-related integral membrane proteoglycan family (GRIPS) contain a core protein anchored to the cytoplasmic membrane via a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol linkage. These proteins may play a role in the control of cell division and growth regulation. The protein encoded by this gene can bind to and inhibit the dipeptidyl peptidase activity of CD26, and it can induce apoptosis in certain cell types. Deletion mutations in this gene are associated with Simpson-Golabi-Behmel syndrome, also known as Simpson dysmorphia syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009].

TCF7L2
This gene encodes a high mobility group (HMG) box-containing transcription factor that plays a key role in the Wnt signaling pathway. The protein has been implicated in blood glucose homeostasis. Genetic variants of this gene are associated with increased risk of type 2 diabetes. Several transcript variants encoding multiple different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010].

ADM
The protein encoded by this gene is a preprohormone which is cleaved to form two biologically active peptides, adrenomedullin and proadrenomedullin N-terminal 20 peptide. Adrenomedullin is a 52 aa peptide with several functions, including vasodilation, regulation of hormone secretion, promotion of angiogenesis, and antimicrobial activity. The antimicrobial activity is antibacterial, as the peptide has been shown to kill E. coli and S. aureus at low concentration. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014].

SESN3
This gene encodes a member of the sestrin family of stress-induced proteins. The encoded protein reduces the levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species induced by activated Ras downstream of RAC-alpha serine/threonine-protein kinase (Akt) and FoxO transcription factor. The protein is required for normal regulation of blood glucose, insulin resistance and plays a role in lipid storage in obesity. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012].

FEZ1
This gene is an ortholog of the C. elegans unc-76 gene, which is necessary for normal axonal bundling and elongation within axon bundles. Expression of this gene in C. elegans unc-76 mutants can restore to the mutants partial locomotion and axonal fasciculation, suggesting that it also functions in axonal outgrowth. The N-terminal half of the gene product is highly acidic. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms of this protein have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TAGLN
This gene encodes a shape change and transformation sensitive actin-binding protein which belongs to the calponin family. It is ubiquitously expressed in vascular and visceral smooth muscle, and is an early marker of smooth muscle differentiation. The encoded protein is thought to be involved in calcium-independent smooth muscle contraction. It acts as a tumor suppressor, and the loss of its expression is an early event in cell transformation and the development of some tumors, coinciding with cellular plasticity. The encoded protein has a domain architecture consisting of an N-terminal calponin homology (CH) domain and a C-terminal calponin-like (CLIK) domain. Mice with a knockout of the orthologous gene are viable and fertile but their vascular smooth muscle cells exhibit alterations in the distribution of the actin filament and changes in cytoskeletal organization. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

CDH22
This gene is a member of the cadherin superfamily. The gene product is composed of five cadherin repeat domains and a cytoplasmic tail similar to the highly conserved cytoplasmic region of classical cadherins. Expressed predominantly in the brain, this putative calcium-dependent cell adhesion protein may play an important role in morphogenesis and tissue formation in neural and non-neural cells during development and maintenance of the brain and neuroendocrine organs. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ALDOA
This gene encodes a member of the class I fructose-bisphosphate aldolase protein family. The encoded protein is a glycolytic enzyme that catalyzes the reversible conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone phosphate. Three aldolase isozymes (A, B, and C), encoded by three different genes, are differentially expressed during development. Mutations in this gene have been associated with Glycogen Storage Disease XII, an autosomal recessive disorder associated with hemolytic anemia. Disruption of this gene also plays a role in the progression of multiple types of cancers. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 3 and 10. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2017].

MKX
The protein encoded by this gene is an IRX family-related homeobox protein that may play a role in cell adhesion. Studies in mice suggest that this protein may be a regulator of tendon development. Two transcript variants encoding the same protein have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2011].

MPP7
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the p55 Stardust family of membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) proteins, which function in the establishment of epithelial cell polarity. This family member forms a complex with the polarity protein DLG1 (discs, large homolog 1) and facilitates epithelial cell polarity and tight junction formation. Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with variations in site-specific bone mineral density (BMD). Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015].

ARID5B
This gene encodes a member of the AT-rich interaction domain (ARID) family of DNA binding proteins. The encoded protein forms a histone H3K9Me2 demethylase complex with PHD finger protein 2 and regulates the transcription of target genes involved in adipogenesis and liver development. This gene also plays a role in cell growth and differentiation of B-lymphocyte progenitors, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in this gene are associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

DIXDC1
The protein encoded by this gene is a positive regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway. The encoded protein is found associated with gamma tubulin at the centrosome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013].

OXSM
This gene encodes a beta-ketoacyl synthetase. The encoded enzyme is required for elongation of fatty acid chains in the mitochondria. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2009].

ANK3
Ankyrins are a family of proteins that are believed to link the integral membrane proteins to the underlying spectrin-actin cytoskeleton and play key roles in activities such as cell motility, activation, proliferation, contact, and the maintenance of specialized membrane domains. Multiple isoforms of ankyrin with different affinities for various target proteins are expressed in a tissue-specific, developmentally regulated manner. Most ankyrins are typically composed of three structural domains: an amino-terminal domain containing multiple ankyrin repeats; a central region with a highly conserved spectrin binding domain; and a carboxy-terminal regulatory domain which is the least conserved and subject to variation. Ankyrin 3 is an immunologically distinct gene product from ankyrins 1 and 2, and was originally found at the axonal initial segment and nodes of Ranvier of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Feb 2011].

MAGI1
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase homologue (MAGUK) family. MAGUK proteins participate in the assembly of multiprotein complexes on the inner surface of the plasma membrane at regions of cell-cell contact. The product of this gene may play a role as scaffolding protein at cell-cell junctions. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

NR3C2
This gene encodes the mineralocorticoid receptor, which mediates aldosterone actions on salt and water balance within restricted target cells. The protein functions as a ligand-dependent transcription factor that binds to mineralocorticoid response elements in order to transactivate target genes. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant pseudohypoaldosteronism type I, a disorder characterized by urinary salt wasting. Defects in this gene are also associated with early onset hypertension with severe exacerbation in pregnancy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2009].

SAV1
WW domain-containing proteins are found in all eukaryotes and play an important role in the regulation of a wide variety of cellular functions such as protein degradation, transcription, and RNA splicing. This gene encodes a protein with two WW domains, a SARAH domain, and a coiled-coil region and is ubiquitously expressed in adult tissues. This protein binds to MST1 (mammalian sterile 20-like kinase 1) and promotes MST1-induced apoptosis. It has also been shown to bind to HAX1 (hematopoietic cell-specific protein 1 (HS1)-associated protein X-1) and to attenuate the anti-apoptotic effects of HAX1. Studies in human and mouse suggest this gene acts as a tumor suppressor. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012].

SACS
This gene encodes the sacsin protein, which includes a UbL domain at the N-terminus, a DnaJ domain, and a HEPN domain at the C-terminus. The gene is highly expressed in the central nervous system, also found in skin, skeletal muscles and at low levels in the pancreas. This gene includes a very large exon spanning more than 12.8 kb. Mutations in this gene result in autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS), a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by early-onset cerebellar ataxia with spasticity and peripheral neuropathy. The authors of a publication on the effects of siRNA-mediated sacsin knockdown concluded that sacsin protects against mutant ataxin-1 and suggest that 'the large multi-domain sacsin protein is able to recruit Hsp70 chaperone action and has the potential to regulate the effects of other ataxia proteins' (Parfitt et al., PubMed: 19208651). A pseudogene associated with this gene is located on chromosome 11. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, May 2013].

PDK1
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is a mitochondrial multienzyme complex that catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and is one of the major enzymes responsible for the regulation of homeostasis of carbohydrate fuels in mammals. The enzymatic activity is regulated by a phosphorylation/dephosphorylation cycle. Phosphorylation of PDH by a specific pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK) results in inactivation. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2013].

TCF7L1
This gene encodes a member of the T cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor family of transcription factors. These transcription factors are activated by beta catenin, mediate the Wnt signaling pathway and are antagonized by the transforming growth factor beta signaling pathway. The encoded protein contains a high mobility group-box DNA binding domain and participates in the regulation of cell cycle genes and cellular senescence. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2010].

CAMK4
The product of this gene belongs to the serine/threonine protein kinase family, and to the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase subfamily. This enzyme is a multifunctional serine/threonine protein kinase with limited tissue distribution, that has been implicated in transcriptional regulation in lymphocytes, neurons and male germ cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MBNL1
This gene encodes a member of the muscleblind protein family which was initially described in Drosophila melanogaster. The encoded protein is a C3H-type zinc finger protein that modulates alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs. Muscleblind proteins bind specifically to expanded dsCUG RNA but not to normal size CUG repeats and may thereby play a role in the pathophysiology of myotonic dystrophy. Mice lacking this gene exhibited muscle abnormalities and cataracts. Several alternatively spliced transcript variants have been described but the full-length natures of only some have been determined. The different isoforms are thought to have different binding specificities and/or splicing activities. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015].

ZNF117
This gene encodes a protein containing multiple C2H2-type zinc finger motifs. Readthrough transcription occurs between this gene and the upstream endogenous retrovirus group 3 member 1 (ERV3-1) locus, and may result in additional transcript variants encoding the zinc finger protein. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2017].

MED21
This gene encodes a member of the mediator complex subunit 21 family. The encoded protein interacts with the human RNA polymerase II holoenzyme and is involved in transcriptional regulation of RNA polymerase II transcribed genes. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 8. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2012].

PLOD2
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane-bound homodimeric enzyme that is localized to the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. The enzyme (cofactors iron and ascorbate) catalyzes the hydroxylation of lysyl residues in collagen-like peptides. The resultant hydroxylysyl groups are attachment sites for carbohydrates in collagen and thus are critical for the stability of intermolecular crosslinks. Some patients with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIB have deficiencies in lysyl hydroxylase activity. Mutations in the coding region of this gene are associated with Bruck syndrome. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DAB2
This gene encodes a mitogen-responsive phosphoprotein. It is expressed in normal ovarian epithelial cells, but is down-regulated or absent from ovarian carcinoma cell lines, suggesting its role as a tumor suppressor. This protein binds to the SH3 domains of GRB2, an adaptor protein that couples tyrosine kinase receptors to SOS (a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Ras), via its C-terminal proline-rich sequences, and may thus modulate growth factor/Ras pathways by competing with SOS for binding to GRB2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011].

FBXL2
This gene encodes a member of the F-box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif, the F-box. The F-box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs (SKP1-cullin-F-box), which function in phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. The F-box proteins are divided into 3 classes: Fbws containing WD-40 domains, Fbls containing leucine-rich repeats, and Fbxs containing either different protein-protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbls class and, in addition to an F-box, contains 12 tandem leucine-rich repeats. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010].

CD8A
The CD8 antigen is a cell surface glycoprotein found on most cytotoxic T lymphocytes that mediates efficient cell-cell interactions within the immune system. The CD8 antigen acts as a coreceptor with the T-cell receptor on the T lymphocyte to recognize antigens displayed by an antigen presenting cell in the context of class I MHC molecules. The coreceptor functions as either a homodimer composed of two alpha chains or as a heterodimer composed of one alpha and one beta chain. Both alpha and beta chains share significant homology to immunoglobulin variable light chains. This gene encodes the CD8 alpha chain. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2011].

MSI2
This gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that is a member of the Musashi protein family. The encoded protein is transcriptional regulator that targets genes involved in development and cell cycle regulation. Mutations in this gene are associated with poor prognosis in certain types of cancers. This gene has also been shown to be rearranged in certain cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016].

TNIK
Wnt signaling plays important roles in carcinogenesis and embryonic development. The protein encoded by this gene is a serine/threonine kinase that functions as an activator of the Wnt signaling pathway. Mutations in this gene are associated with an autosomal recessive form of cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017].

PDLIM3
The protein encoded by this gene contains a PDZ domain and a LIM domain, indicating that it may be involved in cytoskeletal assembly. In support of this, the encoded protein has been shown to bind the spectrin-like repeats of alpha-actinin-2 and to colocalize with alpha-actinin-2 at the Z lines of skeletal muscle. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. Aberrant alternative splicing of this gene may play a role in myotonic dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2012].

SLC26A2
The diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter is a transmembrane glycoprotein implicated in the pathogenesis of several human chondrodysplasias. It apparently is critical in cartilage for sulfation of proteoglycans and matrix organization. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

KIF5A
This gene encodes a member of the kinesin family of proteins. Members of this family are part of a multisubunit complex that functions as a microtubule motor in intracellular organelle transport. Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TSPAN7
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the transmembrane 4 superfamily, also known as the tetraspanin family. Most of these members are cell-surface proteins that are characterized by the presence of four hydrophobic domains. The proteins mediate signal transduction events that play a role in the regulation of cell development, activation, growth and motility. This encoded protein is a cell surface glycoprotein and may have a role in the control of neurite outgrowth. It is known to complex with integrins. This gene is associated with X-linked cognitive disability and neuropsychiatric diseases such as Huntington's chorea, fragile X syndrome and myotonic dystrophy. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

HK1
Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes a ubiquitous form of hexokinase which localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Mutations in this gene have been associated with hemolytic anemia due to hexokinase deficiency. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants which encode different isoforms, some of which are tissue-specific. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016].

CPT2
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear protein which is transported to the mitochondrial inner membrane. Together with carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, the encoded protein oxidizes long-chain fatty acids in the mitochondria. Defects in this gene are associated with mitochondrial long-chain fatty-acid (LCFA) oxidation disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CCNB2
Cyclin B2 is a member of the cyclin family, specifically the B-type cyclins. The B-type cyclins, B1 and B2, associate with p34cdc2 and are essential components of the cell cycle regulatory machinery. B1 and B2 differ in their subcellular localization. Cyclin B1 co-localizes with microtubules, whereas cyclin B2 is primarily associated with the Golgi region. Cyclin B2 also binds to transforming growth factor beta RII and thus cyclin B2/cdc2 may play a key role in transforming growth factor beta-mediated cell cycle control. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PWWP3B
This gene encodes a protein which contains a mutated melanoma-associated antigen 1 domain. Proteins which contain mutated antigens are expressed at high levels on certain types of cancers. Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

WDR66
This protein encoded by this gene belongs to the WD repeat-containing family of proteins, which function in the formation of protein-protein complexes in a variety of biological pathways. This family member appears to function in the determination of mean platelet volume (MPV), and polymorphisms in this gene have been associated with variance in MPV. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

CDC25C
This gene encodes a conserved protein that plays a key role in the regulation of cell division. The encoded protein directs dephosphorylation of cyclin B-bound CDC2 and triggers entry into mitosis. It also suppresses p53-induced growth arrest. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015].

KCNB1
Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shab-related subfamily. This member is a delayed rectifier potassium channel and its activity is modulated by some other family members. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

EDA
The protein encoded by this gene is a type II membrane protein that can be cleaved by furin to produce a secreted form. The encoded protein, which belongs to the tumor necrosis factor family, acts as a homotrimer and may be involved in cell-cell signaling during the development of ectodermal organs. Defects in this gene are a cause of ectodermal dysplasia, anhidrotic, which is also known as X-linked hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia. Several transcript variants encoding many different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

HK2
Hexokinases phosphorylate glucose to produce glucose-6-phosphate, the first step in most glucose metabolism pathways. This gene encodes hexokinase 2, the predominant form found in skeletal muscle. It localizes to the outer membrane of mitochondria. Expression of this gene is insulin-responsive, and studies in rat suggest that it is involved in the increased rate of glycolysis seen in rapidly growing cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2009].

ABCG1
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. ABC proteins transport various molecules across extra- and intra-cellular membranes. ABC genes are divided into seven distinct subfamilies (ABC1, MDR/TAP, MRP, ALD, OABP, GCN20, White). This protein is a member of the White subfamily. It is involved in macrophage cholesterol and phospholipids transport, and may regulate cellular lipid homeostasis in other cell types. Six alternative splice variants have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

AK4
This gene encodes a member of the adenylate kinase family of enzymes. The encoded protein is localized to the mitochondrial matrix. Adenylate kinases regulate the adenine and guanine nucleotide compositions within a cell by catalyzing the reversible transfer of phosphate group among these nucleotides. Five isozymes of adenylate kinase have been identified in vertebrates. Expression of these isozymes is tissue-specific and developmentally regulated. A pseudogene for this gene has been located on chromosome 17. Three transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified for this gene. Sequence alignment suggests that the gene defined by NM_013410, NM_203464, and NM_001005353 is located on chromosome 1. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ALPL
This gene encodes a member of the alkaline phosphatase family of proteins. There are at least four distinct but related alkaline phosphatases: intestinal, placental, placental-like, and liver/bone/kidney (tissue non-specific). The first three are located together on chromosome 2, while the tissue non-specific form is located on chromosome 1. The product of this gene is a membrane bound glycosylated enzyme that is not expressed in any particular tissue and is, therefore, referred to as the tissue-nonspecific form of the enzyme. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. This enzyme may play a role in bone mineralization. Mutations in this gene have been linked to hypophosphatasia, a disorder that is characterized by hypercalcemia and skeletal defects. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015].

VANGL2
The protein encoded by this gene is a membrane protein involved in the regulation of planar cell polarity, especially in the stereociliary bundles of the cochlea. The encoded protein transmits directional signals to individual cells or groups of cells in epithelial sheets. This protein is also involved in the development of the neural plate. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

OLFML2B
This gene encodes an olfactomedin domain-containing protein. Most olfactomedin domain-containing proteins are secreted glycoproteins. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016].

DISC1
This gene encodes a protein with multiple coiled coil motifs which is located in the nucleus, cytoplasm and mitochondria. The protein is involved in neurite outgrowth and cortical development through its interaction with other proteins. This gene is disrupted in a t(1;11)(q42.1;q14.3) translocation which segregates with schizophrenia and related psychiatric disorders in a large Scottish family. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DUSP19
Dual-specificity phosphatases (DUSPs) constitute a large heterogeneous subgroup of the type I cysteine-based protein-tyrosine phosphatase superfamily. DUSPs are characterized by their ability to dephosphorylate both tyrosine and serine/threonine residues. They have been implicated as major modulators of critical signaling pathways. DUSP19 contains a variation of the consensus DUSP C-terminal catalytic domain, with the last serine residue replaced by alanine, and lacks the N-terminal CH2 domain found in the MKP (mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase) class of DUSPs (see MIM 600714) (summary by Patterson et al., 2009 [PubMed 19228121]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2009].

COQ8A
This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein similar to yeast ABC1, which functions in an electron-transferring membrane protein complex in the respiratory chain. It is not related to the family of ABC transporter proteins. Expression of this gene is induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and in response to DNA damage, and inhibiting its expression partially suppresses p53-induced apoptosis. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found; however, their full-length nature has not been determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SGPP2
The protein encoded by this gene is a transmembrane protein that degrades the bioactive signaling molecule sphingosine 1-phosphate. The encoded protein is induced during inflammatory responses and has been shown to be downregulated by the microRNA-31 tumor suppressor. Alternative splice variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016].

INHBB
This gene encodes a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily of proteins. The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate a subunit of the dimeric activin and inhibin protein complexes. These complexes activate and inhibit, respectively, follicle stimulating hormone secretion from the pituitary gland. Polymorphisms near this gene are associated with pre-eclampsia in female human patients. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2016].

SMARCAD1
This gene encodes a member of the SNF subfamily of helicase proteins. The encoded protein plays a critical role in the restoration of heterochromatin organization and propagation of epigenetic patterns following DNA replication by mediating histone H3/H4 deacetylation. Mutations in this gene are associated with adermatoglyphia. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2011].

PBXIP1
The protein encoded by this gene interacts with the PBX1 homeodomain protein, inhibiting its transcriptional activation potential by preventing its binding to DNA. The encoded protein, which is primarily cytosolic but can shuttle to the nucleus, also can interact with estrogen receptors alpha and beta and promote the proliferation of breast cancer, brain tumors, and lung cancer. Several transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. More variants exist, but their full-length natures have yet to be determined. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015].

NFASC
This gene encodes an L1 family immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecule with multiple IGcam and fibronectin domains. The protein functions in neurite outgrowth, neurite fasciculation, and organization of the axon initial segment (AIS) and nodes of Ranvier on axons during early development. Both the AIS and nodes of Ranvier contain high densities of voltage-gated Na+ (Nav) channels which are clustered by interactions with cytoskeletal and scaffolding proteins including this protein, gliomedin, ankyrin 3 (ankyrin-G), and betaIV spectrin. This protein links the AIS extracellular matrix to the intracellular cytoskeleton. This gene undergoes extensive alternative splicing, and the full-length nature of some variants has not been determined.[provided by RefSeq, May 2009].

PTPN13
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) family. PTPs are signaling molecules that regulate a variety of cellular processes including cell growth, differentiation, mitotic cycle, and oncogenic transformation. This PTP is a large intracellular protein. It has a catalytic PTP domain at its C-terminus and two major structural domains: a region with five PDZ domains and a FERM domain that binds to plasma membrane and cytoskeletal elements. This PTP was found to interact with, and dephosphorylate, Fas receptor and IkappaBalpha through the PDZ domains. This suggests it has a role in Fas mediated programmed cell death. This PTP was also shown to interact with GTPase-activating protein, and thus may function as a regulator of Rho signaling pathways. Four alternatively spliced transcript variants, which encode distinct proteins, have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008].

YEATS2
Summary: The protein encoded by this gene is a scaffolding subunit of the ATAC complex, which is a complex with acetyltransferase activity on histones H3 and H4. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, May 2017].

SAP30
Histone acetylation plays a key role in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression. Histone acetylation and deacetylation are catalyzed by multisubunit complexes. The protein encoded by this gene is a component of the histone deacetylase complex, which includes SIN3, SAP18, HDAC1, HDAC2, RbAp46, RbAp48, and other polypeptides. This complex is active in deacetylating core histone octamers, but inactive in deacetylating nucleosomal histones. A pseudogene of this gene is located on chromosome 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ADGRV1
This gene encodes a member of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily. The encoded protein contains a 7-transmembrane receptor domain, binds calcium and is expressed in the central nervous system. Mutations in this gene are associated with Usher syndrome 2 and familial febrile seizures. Several alternatively spliced transcripts have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RHOBTB3
RHOBTB3 is a member of the evolutionarily conserved RHOBTB subfamily of Rho GTPases. For background information on RHOBTBs, see RHOBTB1 (MIM 607351).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004].

CITED2
The protein encoded by this gene inhibits transactivation of HIF1A-induced genes by competing with binding of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha to p300-CH1. Mutations in this gene are a cause of cardiac septal defects. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, May 2012].

ZNF12
This gene is a member of the krueppel C2H2-type zinc-finger protein family and encodes a protein with eight C2H2-type zinc fingers and a KRAB domain. This nuclear protein is involved in developmental control of gene expression. Alternate transcriptional splice variants, encoding different isoforms, have been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RAD21
The protein encoded by this gene is highly similar to the gene product of Schizosaccharomyces pombe rad21, a gene involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks, as well as in chromatid cohesion during mitosis. This protein is a nuclear phospho-protein, which becomes hyperphosphorylated in cell cycle M phase. The highly regulated association of this protein with mitotic chromatin specifically at the centromere region suggests its role in sister chromatid cohesion in mitotic cells. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

GPER1
This gene encodes a multi-pass membrane protein that localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum and a member of the G-protein coupled receptor 1 family. This receptor binds estrogen and activates multiple downstream signaling pathways, leading to stimulation of adenylate cyclase and an increase in cyclic AMP levels, while also promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and synthesis of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate in the nucleus. This protein therefore plays a role in the rapid nongenomic signaling events widely observed following stimulation of cells and tissues with estrogen. This receptor has been shown to play a role in diverse biological processes, including bone and nervous system development, metabolism, cognition, male fertility and uterine function. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

PDP1
Pyruvate dehydrogenase (E1) is one of the three components (E1, E2, and E3) of the large pyruvate dehydrogenase complex. Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases catalyze phosphorylation of serine residues of E1 to inactivate the E1 component and inhibit the complex. Pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatases catalyze the dephosphorylation and activation of the E1 component to reverse the effects of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases. Pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase is a heterodimer consisting of catalytic and regulatory subunits. Two catalytic subunits have been reported; one is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle and another one is is much more abundant in the liver. The catalytic subunit, encoded by this gene, is the former, and belongs to the protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) superfamily. Along with the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and pyruvate dehydrogenase kinases, this enzyme is located in the mitochondrial matrix. Mutation in this gene causes pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase deficiency. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been identified.[provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009].

TMEM67
The protein encoded by this gene localizes to the primary cilium and to the plasma membrane. The gene functions in centriole migration to the apical membrane and formation of the primary cilium. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. Defects in this gene are a cause of Meckel syndrome type 3 (MKS3) and Joubert syndrome type 6 (JBTS6). [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008].

FBXO33
This locus represents an member of the F-box gene family. The encoded protein contains an F-box motif and a domain that might form a structure similar to a leucine-rich repeat found in placental RNAse inhibitor. This locus may be associated with copy number variation of UGT2B17 (GeneID 7367), which has been associated with susceptibility to osteoporosis.[provided by RefSeq, Sep 2010].

CFL2
This gene encodes an intracellular protein that is involved in the regulation of actin-filament dynamics. This protein is a major component of intranuclear and cytoplasmic actin rods. It can bind G- and F-actin in a 1:1 ratio of cofilin to actin, and it reversibly controls actin polymerization and depolymerization in a pH-dependent manner. Mutations in this gene cause nemaline myopathy type 7, a form of congenital myopathy. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2009].

PRDX3
This gene encodes a mitochondrial protein with antioxidant function. The protein is similar to the C22 subunit of Salmonella typhimurium alkylhydroperoxide reductase, and it can rescue bacterial resistance to alkylhydroperoxide in E. coli that lack the C22 subunit. The human and mouse genes are highly conserved, and they map to the regions syntenic between mouse and human chromosomes. Sequence comparisons with recently cloned mammalian homologs suggest that these genes consist of a family that is responsible for the regulation of cellular proliferation, differentiation and antioxidant functions. This family member can protect cells from oxidative stress, and it can promote cell survival in prostate cancer. Alternative splicing of this gene results in multiple transcript variants. Related pseudogenes have been identified on chromosomes 1, 3, 13 and 22. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014].

JCAD
This gene encodes an endothelial cell-to-cell junction protein. Naturally occurring mutations in this gene are associated with coronary artery disease, late onset alzheimer disease, and emphysema distribution. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2017].

NDRG2
This gene is a member of the N-myc downregulated gene family which belongs to the alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily. The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic protein that may play a role in neurite outgrowth. This gene may be involved in glioblastoma carcinogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

MOAP1
The protein encoded by this gene was identified by its interaction with apoptosis regulator BAX protein. This protein contains a Bcl-2 homology 3 (BH3)-like motif, which is required for the association with BAX. When overexpressed, this gene has been shown to mediate caspase-dependent apoptosis. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

RAB8B
RAB proteins, like RAB8B, are low molecular mass monomeric GTPases that localize on the cytoplasmic surfaces of distinct membrane-bound organelles. RAB proteins function in intracellular vesicle transport by aiding in the docking and/or fusion of vesicles with their target membranes (summary by Chen et al., 1997 [PubMed 9030196]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010].

CKB
The protein encoded by this gene is a cytoplasmic enzyme involved in energy homeostasis. The encoded protein reversibly catalyzes the transfer of phosphate between ATP and various phosphogens such as creatine phosphate. It acts as a homodimer in brain as well as in other tissues, and as a heterodimer with a similar muscle isozyme in heart. The encoded protein is a member of the ATP:guanido phosphotransferase protein family. A pseudogene of this gene has been characterized. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DPCD
This gene in mouse encodes a protein that may be involved in the generation and maintenance of ciliated cells. In mouse, expression of this gene increases during ciliated cell differentiation, and disruption of this gene has been linked to primary ciliary dyskinesia. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016].

APBB1
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Fe65 protein family. It is an adaptor protein localized in the nucleus. It interacts with the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP), transcription factor CP2/LSF/LBP1 and the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein. APP functions as a cytosolic anchoring site that can prevent the gene product's nuclear translocation. This encoded protein could play an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is thought to regulate transcription. Also it is observed to block cell cycle progression by downregulating thymidylate synthase expression. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2012].

RAG1
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in activation of immunoglobulin V-D-J recombination. The encoded protein is involved in recognition of the DNA substrate, but stable binding and cleavage activity also requires RAG2. Defects in this gene can be the cause of several diseases. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PEX11A
This gene is a member of the PEX11 family, which is composed of membrane elongation factors involved in regulation of peroxisome maintenance and proliferation. This gene product interacts with peroxisomal membrane protein 19 and may respond to outside stimuli to increase peroxisome abundance. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012].

SCG5
This gene encodes a secreted chaperone protein that prevents the aggregation of other secreted proteins, including proteins that are associated with neurodegenerative and metabolic disease. The encoded protein may be best known for its role in the trafficking and activation of prohormone convertase PC2 (encoded by Gene ID: 5126). Phosphorylation of the encoded protein has been shown to have an inhibitory effect on its chaperone function. This gene also produces a ARHGAP11A-SCG5 readthrough transcript and ARHGAP11A-SCG5 protein. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2019].

GPRC5B
This gene encodes a member of the type 3 G protein-coupled receptor family. Members of this superfamily are characterized by a signature 7-transmembrane domain motif. The encoded protein may modulate insulin secretion and increased protein expression is associated with type 2 diabetes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2015].

ART5
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ARG-specific ADP-ribosyltransferase family. Proteins in this family regulate the function of target proteins by attaching ADP-ribose to specific amino acid residues in their target proteins. The mouse homolog lacks a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor signal sequence and is predicted to be a secretory enzyme. Several transcripts encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

ACAA2
The encoded protein catalyzes the last step of the mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation spiral. Unlike most mitochondrial matrix proteins, it contains a non-cleavable amino-terminal targeting signal. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

VKORC1
This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the vitamin K epoxide reductase complex, which is responsible for the reduction of inactive vitamin K 2,3-epoxide to active vitamin K in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Vitamin K is a required co-factor for carboxylation of glutamic acid residues by vitamin K-dependent gamma-carboxylase in blood-clotting enzymes. Allelic variation in this gene is associated with vitamin k-dependent clotting factors combined deficiency of 2, and increased resistance or sensitivity to warfarin, an inhibitor of vitamin K epoxide reductase. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on chromosomes 1 and X. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

TUBA1A
Microtubules of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton perform essential and diverse functions and are composed of a heterodimer of alpha and beta tubulins. The genes encoding these microtubule constituents belong to the tubulin superfamily, which is composed of six distinct families. Genes from the alpha, beta and gamma tubulin families are found in all eukaryotes. The alpha and beta tubulins represent the major components of microtubules, while gamma tubulin plays a critical role in the nucleation of microtubule assembly. There are multiple alpha and beta tubulin genes, which are highly conserved among species. This gene encodes alpha tubulin and is highly similar to the mouse and rat Tuba1 genes. Northern blot studies have shown that the gene expression is predominantly found in morphologically differentiated neurologic cells. This gene is one of three alpha-tubulin genes in a cluster on chromosome 12q. Mutations in this gene cause lissencephaly type 3 (LIS3) - a neurological condition characterized by microcephaly, intellectual disability, and early-onset epilepsy caused by defective neuronal migration. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017].

ANGPTL4
This gene encodes a glycosylated, secreted protein containing a C-terminal fibrinogen domain. The encoded protein is induced by peroxisome proliferation activators and functions as a serum hormone that regulates glucose homeostasis, lipid metabolism, and insulin sensitivity. This protein can also act as an apoptosis survival factor for vascular endothelial cells and can prevent metastasis by inhibiting vascular growth and tumor cell invasion. The C-terminal domain may be proteolytically-cleaved from the full-length secreted protein. Decreased expression of this gene has been associated with type 2 diabetes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. This gene was previously referred to as ANGPTL2 but has been renamed ANGPTL4. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2013].

KIF5C
The protein encoded by this gene is a kinesin heavy chain subunit involved in the transport of cargo within the central nervous system. The encoded protein, which acts as a tetramer by associating with another heavy chain and two light chains, interacts with protein kinase CK2. Mutations in this gene have been associated with complex cortical dysplasia with other brain malformations-2. Two transcript variants, one protein-coding and the other non-protein coding, have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2015].

HR
This gene encodes a protein that is involved in hair growth. This protein functions as a transcriptional corepressor of multiple nuclear receptors, including thyroid hormone receptor, the retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptors and the vitamin D receptors, and it interacts with histone deacetylases. The translation of this protein is modulated by a regulatory open reading frame (ORF) that exists upstream of the primary ORF. Mutations in this upstream ORF cause Marie Unna hereditary hypotrichosis (MUHH), an autosomal dominant form of genetic hair loss. Mutations in this gene also cause autosomal recessive congenital alopecia and atrichia with papular lesions, other diseases resulting in hair loss. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014].

AXIN2
The Axin-related protein, Axin2, presumably plays an important role in the regulation of the stability of beta-catenin in the Wnt signaling pathway, like its rodent homologs, mouse conductin/rat axil. In mouse, conductin organizes a multiprotein complex of APC (adenomatous polyposis of the colon), beta-catenin, glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta, and conductin, which leads to the degradation of beta-catenin. Apparently, the deregulation of beta-catenin is an important event in the genesis of a number of malignancies. The AXIN2 gene has been mapped to 17q23-q24, a region that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer, neuroblastoma, and other tumors. Mutations in this gene have been associated with colorectal cancer with defective mismatch repair. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

CXXC4
This gene encodes a CXXC-type zinc finger domain-containing protein that functions as an antagonist of the canonical wingless/integrated signaling pathway. The encoded protein negatively regulates wingless/integrated signaling through interaction with the post synaptic density protein/ Drosophila disc large tumor suppressor/ zonula occludens-1 protein domain of Dishevelled, a scaffolding protein required for the stabilization of the transcriptional co-activator beta-catenin. In addition, the CXXC domain of this protein has been shown to bind unmethylated CpG dinucleotides, localize to promoters and CpG islands, and interact with the catalytic domain of methylcytosine dioxygenase ten-eleven-translocation 2, an iron and alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent dioxygenase that modifies the methylation status of DNA. In humans, a mutation in this gene has been associated with development of malignant renal cell carcinoma. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015].

ARMC4
The protein encoded by this gene contains ten Armadillo repeat motifs (ARMs) and one HEAT repeat, and is thought to be involved in ciliary and flagellar movement. This protein has been shown to localize to the ciliary axonemes and at the ciliary base of respiratory cells. Studies indicate that mutations in this gene cause partial outer dynein arm (ODA) defects in respiratory cilia. The cilia of cells with mutations in this gene displayed either reduced ciliary beat frequency and amplitude, or, complete immotility. Some individuals with primary ciliary dyskensia (PCD) have been shown to have mutations in this gene. PCD is characterized by chronic airway disease and left/right body asymmetry defects. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

SIN3A
The protein encoded by this gene is a transcriptional regulatory protein. It contains paired amphipathic helix (PAH) domains, which are important for protein-protein interactions and may mediate repression by the Mad-Max complex. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ZNF280A
This gene encodes a zinc finger protein. The encoded protein contains 4 C2H2-type zinc fingers, which are commonly found in transcription factors. A variety of functions may be performed by this type of zinc finger protein, including the binding of DNA or RNA. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014].

ANTXR1
This gene encodes a type I transmembrane protein and is a tumor-specific endothelial marker that has been implicated in colorectal cancer. The encoded protein has been shown to also be a docking protein or receptor for Bacillus anthracis toxin, the causative agent of the disease, anthrax. The binding of the protective antigen (PA) component, of the tripartite anthrax toxin, to this receptor protein mediates delivery of toxin components to the cytosol of cells. Once inside the cell, the other two components of anthrax toxin, edema factor (EF) and lethal factor (LF) disrupt normal cellular processes. Three alternatively spliced variants that encode different protein isoforms have been described. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2008].

BUB1
This gene encodes a serine/threonine-protein kinase that play a central role in mitosis. The encoded protein functions in part by phosphorylating members of the mitotic checkpoint complex and activating the spindle checkpoint. This protein also plays a role in inhibiting the activation of the anaphase promoting complex/cyclosome. This protein may also function in the DNA damage response. Mutations in this gene have been associated with aneuploidy and several forms of cancer. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2013].

PCDH7
This gene belongs to the protocadherin gene family, a subfamily of the cadherin superfamily. The gene encodes a protein with an extracellular domain containing 7 cadherin repeats. The gene product is an integral membrane protein that is thought to function in cell-cell recognition and adhesion. Alternative splicing yields isoforms with unique cytoplasmic tails. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

P2RY1
The product of this gene belongs to the family of G-protein coupled receptors. This family has several receptor subtypes with different pharmacological selectivity, which overlaps in some cases, for various adenosine and uridine nucleotides. This receptor functions as a receptor for extracellular ATP and ADP. In platelets binding to ADP leads to mobilization of intracellular calcium ions via activation of phospholipase C, a change in platelet shape, and probably to platelet aggregation. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

FOS
The Fos gene family consists of 4 members: FOS, FOSB, FOSL1, and FOSL2.  These genes encode leucine zipper proteins that can dimerize with proteins of the JUN family, thereby forming the transcription factor complex AP-1.  As such, the FOS proteins have been implicated as regulators of cell proliferation, differentiation, and transformation.  In some cases, expression of the FOS gene has also been associated with apoptotic cell death. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SEMA3E
Semaphorins are a large family of conserved secreted and membrane associated proteins which possess a semaphorin (Sema) domain and a PSI domain (found in plexins, semaphorins and integrins) in the N-terminal extracellular portion. Based on sequence and structural similarities, semaphorins are put into eight classes: invertebrates contain classes 1 and 2, viruses have class V, and vertebrates contain classes 3-7. Semaphorins serve as axon guidance ligands via multimeric receptor complexes, some (if not all) containing plexin proteins. This gene encodes a class 4 semaphorin. This gene encodes a class 3 semaphorin. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

GPRC5C
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the type 3 G protein-coupled receptor family. Members of this superfamily are characterized by a signature 7-transmembrane domain motif. The specific function of this protein is unknown; however, this protein may mediate the cellular effects of retinoic acid on the G protein signal transduction cascade. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ARL6IP1
This gene belongs to the ARL6ip family and encodes a transmembrane protein that is predominantly localized to intracytoplasmic membranes. It is highly expressed in early myeloid progenitor cells and thought to be involved in protein transport, membrane trafficking, or cell signaling during hematopoietic maturation. Mutations in this gene are associated with spastic paraplegia 61 (SPG61). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015].

GPR37
This gene is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family. The encoded protein contains seven transmembrane domains and is found in cell and endoplasmic reticulum membranes. G protein-coupled receptors are involved in translating outside signals into G protein mediated intracellular effects. This gene product interacts with Parkin and is involved in juvenile Parkinson disease. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012].

ZNF160
The protein encoded by this gene is a Kruppel-related zinc finger protein which is characterized by the presence of an N-terminal repressor domain, the Kruppel-associated box (KRAB). The KRAB domain is a potent repressor of transcription; thus this protein may function in transcription regulation. Multiple transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016].

SOCS5
The protein encoded by this gene contains a SH2 domain and a SOCS BOX domain. The protein thus belongs to the suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family, also known as STAT-induced STAT inhibitor (SSI) protein family. SOCS family members are known to be cytokine-inducible negative regulators of cytokine signaling. The specific function of this protein has not yet been determined. Two alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding an identical protein have been reported. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PGAM1
The protein encoded by this gene is a mutase that catalyzes the reversible reaction of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) to 2-phosphoglycerate (2-PGA) in the glycolytic pathway. Two transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015].

KCND3
Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels represent the most complex class of voltage-gated ion channels from both functional and structural standpoints. Their diverse functions include regulating neurotransmitter release, heart rate, insulin secretion, neuronal excitability, epithelial electrolyte transport, smooth muscle contraction, and cell volume. Four sequence-related potassium channel genes - shaker, shaw, shab, and shal - have been identified in Drosophila, and each has been shown to have human homolog(s). This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel, voltage-gated, shal-related subfamily, members of which form voltage-activated A-type potassium ion channels and are prominent in the repolarization phase of the action potential. This member includes two isoforms with different sizes, which are encoded by alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ENC1
This gene encodes a member of the kelch-related family of actin-binding proteins. The encoded protein plays a role in the oxidative stress response as a regulator of the transcription factor Nrf2, and expression of this gene may play a role in malignant transformation. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Feb 2012].

ATF7IP
ATF7IP is a multifunctional nuclear protein that associates with heterochromatin. It can act as a transcriptional coactivator or corepressor depending upon its binding partners (summary by Liu et al., 2009 [PubMed 19106100]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010].

CYP4F22
This gene encodes a member of the cytochrome P450 superfamily of enzymes. The cytochrome P450 proteins are monooxygenases which catalyze many reactions involved in drug metabolism and synthesis of cholesterol, steroids and other lipids. This gene is part of a cluster of cytochrome P450 genes on chromosome 19 and encodes an enzyme thought to play a role in the 12(R)-lipoxygenase pathway. Mutations in this gene are the cause of ichthyosis lamellar type 3. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ID4
This gene encodes a member of the inhibitor of DNA binding (ID) protein family. The encoded protein lacks DNA binding ability, and instead regulates gene expression through binding to and inhibiting basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors. This protein has been implicated in the regulation of diverse cellular processes that play a role in development and tumorigenesis. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

MANEA
N-glycosylation of proteins is initiated in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by the transfer of the preassembled oligosaccharide glucose-3-mannose-9-N-acetylglucosamine-2 from dolichyl pyrophosphate to acceptor sites on the target protein by an oligosaccharyltransferase complex. This core oligosaccharide is sequentially processed by several ER glycosidases and by an endomannosidase (E.C. 3.2.1.130), such as MANEA, in the Golgi. MANEA catalyzes the release of mono-, di-, and triglucosylmannose oligosaccharides by cleaving the alpha-1,2-mannosidic bond that links them to high-mannose glycans (Hamilton et al., 2005 [PubMed 15677381]).[supplied by OMIM, Sep 2008].

AFF1
This gene encodes a member of the AF4/ lymphoid nuclear protein related to the Fragile X E syndrome (FRAXE) family of proteins, which have been implicated in human childhood lymphoblastic leukemia, fragile chromosome X intellectual disability, and ataxia. It is the prevalent mixed-lineage leukemia fusion gene associated with spontaneous acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Members of this family have three conserved domains: an N-terminal homology domain, an AF4/ lymphoid nuclear protein domain, and a C-terminal homology domain. The protein functions as a regulator of RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription through elongation and chromatin remodeling functions. Through RNA interference screens, this gene has been shown to promote the expression of CD133, a plasma membrane glycoprotein required for leukemia cell survival. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017].

GLRX
This gene encodes a member of the glutaredoxin family. The encoded protein is a cytoplasmic enzyme catalyzing the reversible reduction of glutathione-protein mixed disulfides. This enzyme highly contributes to the antioxidant defense system. It is crucial for several signalling pathways by controlling the S-glutathionylation status of signalling mediators. It is involved in beta-amyloid toxicity and Alzheimer's disease. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].

PPP1R3B
This gene encodes the catalytic subunit of the serine/theonine phosphatase, protein phosphatase-1. The encoded protein is expressed in liver and skeletal muscle tissue and may be involved in regulating glycogen synthesis in these tissues. This gene may be a involved in type 2 diabetes and maturity-onset diabetes of the young. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants that encode the same protein.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011].

STOX2
This gene encodes a Storkhead-box_winged-helix domain containing protein. This protein is differentially expressed in decidual tissue and may be involved in the susceptibility to pre-eclampsia with fetal growth restriction. Alternate splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2015].

PEAK1
This gene encodes a non-receptor tyrosine kinase that is a member of the new kinase family three (NFK3) family. In migrating cells, the encoded protein is associated with the actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesions and promotes developing focal adhesion elongation. This protein may play a role in the regulation of cell migration, proliferation and cancer metastasis. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014].

MSRB3
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the reduction of methionine sulfoxide to methionine. This enzyme acts as a monomer and requires zinc as a cofactor. Several transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. One of the isoforms localizes to mitochondria while the other localizes to endoplasmic reticula. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010].

ZCCHC12
This gene encodes a downstream effector of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling. This protein contains a zinc finger domain and functions as a transcriptional coactivator. Variation in this gene may be associated with X-linked cognitive disability. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

CNTNAP2
This gene encodes a member of the neurexin family which functions in the vertebrate nervous system as cell adhesion molecules and receptors. This protein, like other neurexin proteins, contains epidermal growth factor repeats and laminin G domains. In addition, it includes an F5/8 type C domain, discoidin/neuropilin- and fibrinogen-like domains, thrombospondin N-terminal-like domains and a putative PDZ binding site. This protein is localized at the juxtaparanodes of myelinated axons, and mediates interactions between neurons and glia during nervous system development and is also involved in localization of potassium channels within differentiating axons. This gene encompasses almost 1.5% of chromosome 7 and is one of the largest genes in the human genome. It is directly bound and regulated by forkhead box protein P2, a transcription factor related to speech and language development. This gene has been implicated in multiple neurodevelopmental disorders, including Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, schizophrenia, epilepsy, autism, ADHD and intellectual disability. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017].

FZD4
This gene is a member of the frizzled gene family. Members of this family encode seven-transmembrane domain proteins that are receptors for the Wingless type MMTV integration site family of signaling proteins. Most frizzled receptors are coupled to the beta-catenin canonical signaling pathway. This protein may play a role as a positive regulator of the Wingless type MMTV integration site signaling pathway. A transcript variant retaining intronic sequence and encoding a shorter isoform has been described, however, its expression is not supported by other experimental evidence. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MARCKSL1
This gene encodes a member of the myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS) family. Members of this family play a role in cytoskeletal regulation, protein kinase C signaling and calmodulin signaling. The encoded protein affects the formation of adherens junction. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. Pseudogenes of this gene are located on the long arm of chromosomes 6 and 10. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2012].

CSRP2
CSRP2 is a member of the CSRP family of genes, encoding a group of LIM domain proteins, which may be involved in regulatory processes important for development and cellular differentiation. CRP2 contains two copies of the cysteine-rich amino acid sequence motif (LIM) with putative zinc-binding activity, and may be involved in regulating ordered cell growth. Other genes in the family include CSRP1 and CSRP3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

PCCA
The protein encoded by this gene is the alpha subunit of the heterodimeric mitochondrial enzyme Propionyl-CoA carboxylase. PCCA encodes the biotin-binding region of this enzyme. Mutations in either PCCA or PCCB (encoding the beta subunit) lead to an enzyme deficiency resulting in propionic acidemia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

CHST1
This locus encodes a member of the keratin sulfotransferase family of proteins. The encoded enzyme catalyzes the sulfation of the proteoglycan keratin. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].

UCP3
Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins (UCP) are members of the larger family of mitochondrial anion carrier proteins (MACP). UCPs separate oxidative phosphorylation from ATP synthesis with energy dissipated as heat, also referred to as the mitochondrial proton leak. UCPs facilitate the transfer of anions from the inner to the outer mitochondrial membrane and the return transfer of protons from the outer to the inner mitochondrial membrane. They also reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential in mammalian cells. The different UCPs have tissue-specific expression; this gene is primarily expressed in skeletal muscle. This gene's protein product is postulated to protect mitochondria against lipid-induced oxidative stress. Expression levels of this gene increase when fatty acid supplies to mitochondria exceed their oxidation capacity and the protein enables the export of fatty acids from mitochondria. UCPs contain the three solcar protein domains typically found in MACPs. Two splice variants have been found for this gene.[provided by RefSeq, Nov 2008].

NR2F1
The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear hormone receptor and transcriptional regulator. The encoded protein acts as a homodimer and binds to 5'-AGGTCA-3' repeats. Defects in this gene are a cause of Bosch-Boonstra optic atrophy syndrome (BBOAS). [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2014].

DOK7
The protein encoded by this gene is essential for neuromuscular synaptogenesis. The protein functions in aneural activation of muscle-specific receptor kinase, which is required for postsynaptic differentiation, and in the subsequent clustering of the acetylcholine receptor in myotubes. This protein can also induce autophosphorylation of muscle-specific receptor kinase. Mutations in this gene are a cause of familial limb-girdle myasthenia autosomal recessive, which is also known as congenital myasthenic syndrome type 1B. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2009].

SPHK1
The protein encoded by this gene catalyzes the phosphorylation of sphingosine to form sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a lipid mediator with both intra- and extracellular functions. Intracellularly, S1P regulates proliferation and survival, and extracellularly, it is a ligand for cell surface G protein-coupled receptors. This protein, and its product S1P, play a key role in TNF-alpha signaling and the NF-kappa-B activation pathway important in inflammatory, antiapoptotic, and immune processes. Phosphorylation of this protein alters its catalytic activity and promotes its translocation to the plasma membrane. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2017].

BNIP3
This gene is encodes a mitochondrial protein that contains a BH3 domain and acts as a pro-apoptotic factor. The encoded protein interacts with anti-apoptotic proteins, including the E1B 19 kDa protein and Bcl2. This gene is silenced in tumors by DNA methylation. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014].

ZSCAN2
The protein encoded by this gene contains several copies of zinc finger motif, which is commonly found in transcriptional regulatory proteins. Studies in mice show that this gene is expressed during embryonic development, and specifically in the testis in adult mice, suggesting that it may play a role in regulating genes in germ cells. Alternative splicing of this gene results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DIRAS1
DIRAS1 belongs to a distinct branch of the functionally diverse Ras (see HRAS; MIM 190020) superfamily of monomeric GTPases.[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2004].

USF3
This gene encodes a large protein that contains a helix-loop-helix domain and a polyglutamine region. A deletion in the polyglutamine region was associated with risk for thyroid carcinoma. [provided by RefSeq, May 2017].

BDNF
This gene encodes a member of the nerve growth factor family of proteins. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants, at least one of which encodes a preproprotein that is proteolytically processed to generate the mature protein. Binding of this protein to its cognate receptor promotes neuronal survival in the adult brain. Expression of this gene is reduced in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's disease patients. This gene may play a role in the regulation of the stress response and in the biology of mood disorders. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2015].

PGBD5
The piggyBac family of proteins, found in diverse animals, are transposases related to the transposase of the canonical piggyBac transposon from the moth, Trichoplusia ni. This family also includes genes in several genomes, including human, that appear to have been derived from the piggyBac transposons. This gene belongs to the subfamily of piggyBac transposable element derived (PGBD) genes. The PGBD proteins appear to be novel, with no obvious relationship to other transposases, or other known protein families. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

NECTIN3
This gene encodes a member of the nectin family of proteins, which function as adhesion molecules at adherens junctions. This family member interacts with other nectin-like proteins and with afadin, a filamentous actin-binding protein involved in the regulation of directional motility, cell proliferation and survival. This gene plays a role in ocular development involving the ciliary body. Mutations in this gene are believed to result in congenital ocular defects. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2011].

CA8
The protein encoded by this gene was initially named CA-related protein because of sequence similarity to other known carbonic anhydrase genes. However, the gene product lacks carbonic anhydrase activity (i.e., the reversible hydration of carbon dioxide). The gene product continues to carry a carbonic anhydrase designation based on clear sequence identity to other members of the carbonic anhydrase gene family. The absence of CA8 gene transcription in the cerebellum of the lurcher mutant in mice with a neurologic defect suggests an important role for this acatalytic form. Mutations in this gene are associated with cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation, and dysequilibrium syndrome 3 (CMARQ3). Polymorphisms in this gene are associated with osteoporosis, and overexpression of this gene in osteosarcoma cells suggests an oncogenic role. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2016].

APOLD1
APOLD1 is an endothelial cell early response protein that may play a role in regulation of endothelial cell signaling and vascular function (Regard et al., 2004 [PubMed 15102925]).[supplied by OMIM, Dec 2008].

HLA-DQB1
HLA-DQB1 belongs to the HLA class II beta chain paralogs. This class II molecule is a heterodimer consisting of an alpha (DQA) and a beta chain (DQB), both anchored in the membrane. It plays a central role in the immune system by presenting peptides derived from extracellular proteins. Class II molecules are expressed in antigen presenting cells (APC: B lymphocytes, dendritic cells, macrophages). The beta chain is approximately 26-28 kDa and it contains six exons. Exon 1 encodes the leader peptide, exons 2 and 3 encode the two extracellular domains, exon 4 encodes the transmembrane domain and exon 5 encodes the cytoplasmic tail. Within the DQ molecule both the alpha chain and the beta chain contain the polymorphisms specifying the peptide binding specificities, resulting in up to four different molecules. Typing for these polymorphisms is routinely done for bone marrow transplantation. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

OAZ2
The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the ornithine decarboxylase antizyme family, which plays a role in cell growth and proliferation by regulating intracellular polyamines. Expression of antizymes requires +1 ribosomal frameshifting, which is enhanced by high levels of polyamines. Antizymes in turn bind to and inhibit ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the key enzyme in polyamine biosynthesis; thus, completing the auto-regulatory circuit. This gene encodes antizyme 2, the second member of the antizyme family. Like antizyme 1, antizyme 2 has broad tissue distribution, inhibits ODC activity and polyamine uptake, and stimulates ODC degradation in vivo; however, it fails to promote ODC degradation in vitro. Antizyme 2 is expressed at lower levels than antizyme 1, but is evolutionary more conserved, suggesting it likely has an important biological role. Studies also show different subcellular localization of antizymes 1 and 2, indicating specific function for each antizyme in discrete compartments of the cell. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014].

PRF1
This gene encodes a protein with structural similarities to complement component C9 that is important in immunity. This protein forms membrane pores that allow the release of granzymes and subsequent cytolysis of target cells. Whether pore formation occurs in the plasma membrane of target cells or in an endosomal membrane inside target cells is subject to debate. Mutations in this gene are associated with a variety of human disease including diabetes, multiple sclerosis, lymphomas, autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS), aplastic anemia, and familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis type 2 (FHL2), a rare and lethal autosomal recessive disorder of early childhood. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

ARSJ
Sulfatases (EC 3.1.5.6), such as ARSJ, hydrolyze sulfate esters from sulfated steroids, carbohydrates, proteoglycans, and glycolipids. They are involved in hormone biosynthesis, modulation of cell signaling, and degradation of macromolecules (Sardiello et al., 2005 [PubMed 16174644]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

MAP3K15
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. These family members function in a protein kinase signal transduction cascade, where an activated MAPK kinase kinase (MAP3K) phosphorylates and activates a specific MAPK kinase (MAP2K), which then activates a specific MAPK. This MAP3K protein plays an essential role in apoptotic cell death triggered by cellular stresses. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2010].

CAPS2
Calcyphosine-2 is a calcium-binding protein with 2 EF-hand motifs (Wang et al., 2002 [PubMed 11846421]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

F2R
Coagulation factor II receptor is a 7-transmembrane receptor involved in the regulation of thrombotic response. Proteolytic cleavage leads to the activation of the receptor. F2R is a G-protein coupled receptor family member. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2015].

FRAT2
The protein encoded by this intronless gene belongs to the GSK-3-binding protein family. Studies show that this protein plays a role as a positive regulator of the WNT signaling pathway. It may be upregulated in tumor progression. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ZNF322
ZNF322A is a member of the zinc-finger transcription factor family and may regulate transcriptional activation in MAPK (see MAPK1; MIM 176948) signaling pathways (Li et al., 2004 [PubMed 15555580]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

RFX7
RFX7 is a member of the regulatory factor X (RFX) family of transcription factors (see RFX1, MIM 600006) (Aftab et al., 2008 [PubMed 18673564]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2009].

SYNM
The protein encoded by this gene is an intermediate filament (IF) family member. IF proteins are cytoskeletal proteins that confer resistance to mechanical stress and are encoded by a dispersed multigene family. This protein has been found to form a linkage between desmin, which is a subunit of the IF network, and the extracellular matrix, and provides an important structural support in muscle. Two alternatively spliced variants encoding different isoforms have been described for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SATB1
This gene encodes a matrix protein which binds nuclear matrix and scaffold-associating DNAs through a unique nuclear architecture. The protein recruits chromatin-remodeling factors in order to regulate chromatin structure and gene expression. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2016].

EPHB3
Ephrin receptors and their ligands, the ephrins, mediate numerous developmental processes, particularly in the nervous system. Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are divided into two groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. Ephrin receptors make up the largest subgroup of the receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) family. This gene encodes a receptor for ephrin-B family members. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2010].

CRIP2
This gene encodes a putative transcription factor with two LIM zinc-binding domains. The encoded protein may participate in the differentiation of smooth muscle tissue. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012].

HMGN4
The protein encoded by this gene, a member of the HMGN protein family, is thought to reduce the compactness of the chromatin fiber in nucleosomes, thereby enhancing transcription from chromatin templates. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2013].

SPNS2
The protein encoded by this gene is a transporter of sphingosine 1-phosphate, a secreted lipid that is important in cardiovascular, immunological, and neural development. Defects in this gene are a cause of early onset progressive hearing loss. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2016].

ABAT
4-aminobutyrate aminotransferase (ABAT) is responsible for catabolism of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), an important, mostly inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, into succinic semialdehyde. The active enzyme is a homodimer of 50-kD subunits complexed to pyridoxal-5-phosphate. The protein sequence is over 95% similar to the pig protein. GABA is estimated to be present in nearly one-third of human synapses. ABAT in liver and brain is controlled by 2 codominant alleles with a frequency in a Caucasian population of 0.56 and 0.44. The ABAT deficiency phenotype includes psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, hyperreflexia, lethargy, refractory seizures, and EEG abnormalities. Multiple alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding the same protein isoform have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PRR36
This gene encodes a large protein of unknown function that contains internal regions of low complexity sequence. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The transcript structure of the protein-coding variant at this locus is conserved between human and mouse. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2013].

OR51B4
Olfactory receptors interact with odorant molecules in the nose, to initiate a neuronal response that triggers the perception of a smell. The olfactory receptor proteins are members of a large family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) arising from single coding-exon genes. Olfactory receptors share a 7-transmembrane domain structure with many neurotransmitter and hormone receptors and are responsible for the recognition and G protein-mediated transduction of odorant signals. The olfactory receptor gene family is the largest in the genome. The nomenclature assigned to the olfactory receptor genes and proteins for this organism is independent of other organisms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MEX3B
This gene encodes an RNA-binding phosphoprotein that is part of the MEX3 (muscle excess 3) family of translational regulators. The encoded protein contains N-terminal nuclear export and nuclear localization signals and is exported from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. The protein binds to RNA via two KH domains and also colocalizes with MEX3A, Dcp1A decapping factor and Argonaute proteins within P (processing) bodies. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2012].

SCN5A
The protein encoded by this gene is an integral membrane protein and tetrodotoxin-resistant voltage-gated sodium channel subunit. This protein is found primarily in cardiac muscle and is responsible for the initial upstroke of the action potential in an electrocardiogram. Defects in this gene are a cause of long QT syndrome type 3 (LQT3), an autosomal dominant cardiac disease. Alternative splicing results in several transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

EFNA5
Ephrin-A5, a member of the ephrin gene family, prevents axon bundling in cocultures of cortical neurons with astrocytes, a model of late stage nervous system development and differentiation. The EPH and EPH-related receptors comprise the largest subfamily of receptor protein-tyrosine kinases and have been implicated in mediating developmental events, particularly in the nervous system. EPH receptors typically have a single kinase domain and an extracellular region containing a Cys-rich domain and 2 fibronectin type III repeats. The ephrin ligands and receptors have been named by the Eph Nomenclature Committee (1997). Based on their structures and sequence relationships, ephrins are divided into the ephrin-A (EFNA) class, which are anchored to the membrane by a glycosylphosphatidylinositol linkage, and the ephrin-B (EFNB) class, which are transmembrane proteins. The Eph family of receptors are similarly divided into 2 groups based on the similarity of their extracellular domain sequences and their affinities for binding ephrin-A and ephrin-B ligands. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MAML2
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the Mastermind-like family of proteins. All family members are proline and glutamine-rich, and contain a conserved basic domain that binds the ankyrin repeat domain of the intracellular domain of the Notch receptors (ICN1-4) in their N-terminus, and a transcriptional activation domain in their C-terminus. This protein binds to an extended groove that is formed by the interaction of CBF1, Suppressor of Hairless, LAG-1 (CSL) with ICN, and positively regulates Notch signaling. High levels of expression of this gene have been observed in several B cell-derived lymphomas. Translocations resulting in fusion proteins with both CRTC1 and CRTC3 have been implicated in the development of mucoepidermoid carcinomas, while a translocation event with CXCR4 has been linked with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Copy number variation in the polyglutamine tract has been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2015].

FOXO4
This gene encodes a member of the O class of winged helix/forkhead transcription factor family. Proteins encoded by this class are regulated by factors involved in growth and differentiation indicating they play a role in these processes. A translocation involving this gene on chromosome X and the homolog of the Drosophila trithorax gene, encoding a DNA binding protein, located on chromosome 11 is associated with leukemia. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2010].

PDE4B
This gene is a member of the type IV, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-specific, cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) family. The encoded protein regulates the cellular concentrations of cyclic nucleotides and thereby play a role in signal transduction. Altered activity of this protein has been associated with schizophrenia and bipolar affective disorder. Alternative splicing and the use of alternative promoters results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2014].

CDCA2
This gene encodes a targeting subunit of the cell-cycle associated protein, protein phosphatase 1, with a role in targeting this protein to chromatin during anaphase. These two proteins comprise a phosphatase complex that is involved in nuclear envelope reformation and regulation of the DNA damage response. The encoded protein may also play a role in cancer progression. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015].

SEPTIN5
This gene is a member of the septin gene family of nucleotide binding proteins, originally described in yeast as cell division cycle regulatory proteins. Septins are highly conserved in yeast, Drosophila, and mouse and appear to regulate cytoskeletal organization. Disruption of septin function disturbs cytokinesis and results in large multinucleate or polyploid cells. This gene is mapped to 22q11, the region frequently deleted in DiGeorge and velocardiofacial syndromes. A translocation involving the MLL gene and this gene has also been reported in patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. The presence of a non-consensus polyA signal (AACAAT) in this gene also results in read-through transcription into the downstream neighboring gene (GP1BB; platelet glycoprotein Ib), whereby larger, non-coding transcripts are produced. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2010].

DRD1
This gene encodes the D1 subtype of the dopamine receptor. The D1 subtype is the most abundant dopamine receptor in the central nervous system. This G-protein coupled receptor stimulates adenylyl cyclase and activates cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases. D1 receptors regulate neuronal growth and development, mediate some behavioral responses, and modulate dopamine receptor D2-mediated events. Alternate transcription initiation sites result in two transcript variants of this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

PBX1
This gene encodes a nuclear protein that belongs to the PBX homeobox family of transcriptional factors. Studies in mice suggest that this gene may be involved in the regulation of osteogenesis and required for skeletal patterning and programming. A chromosomal translocation, t(1;19) involving this gene and TCF3/E2A gene, is associated with pre-B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The resulting fusion protein, in which the DNA binding domain of E2A is replaced by the DNA binding domain of this protein, transforms cells by constitutively activating transcription of genes regulated by the PBX protein family. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2017].

SNAI3
SNAI3 is a member of the SNAIL gene family, named for the Drosophila snail gene, which plays roles in mesodermal formation during embryogenesis (Katoh and Katoh, 2003 [PubMed 12579345]).[supplied by OMIM, Apr 2009].

IFIT1
This gene encodes a protein containing tetratricopeptide repeats that was originally identified as induced upon treatment with interferon. The encoded protein may inhibit viral replication and translational initiation. This gene is located in a cluster on chromosome 10 with five other closely related genes. There is a pseudogene for this gene on chromosome 13. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2012].

PTCH1
This gene encodes a member of the patched family of proteins and a component of the hedgehog signaling pathway. Hedgehog signaling is important in embryonic development and tumorigenesis. The encoded protein is the receptor for the secreted hedgehog ligands, which include sonic hedgehog, indian hedgehog and desert hedgehog. Following binding by one of the hedgehog ligands, the encoded protein is trafficked away from the primary cilium, relieving inhibition of the G-protein-coupled receptor smoothened, which results in activation of downstream signaling. Mutations of this gene have been associated with basal cell nevus syndrome and holoprosencephaly. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

LYRM7
Inner mitochondrial membrane complex III (CIII) is the main enzyme complex in the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and Rieske Fe-S protein (UQCRFS1) is the last catalytic subunit added to the complex. The protein encoded by this gene is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial matrix protein that stabilizes UQCRFS1 and chaperones it to the CIII complex. Defects in this gene are a cause of mitochondrial complex III deficiency, nuclear type 8. Three transcript variants encoding two different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2014].

HEXIM1
Expression of this gene is induced by hexamethylene-bis-acetamide in vascular smooth muscle cells. This gene has no introns. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TEAD1
This gene encodes a ubiquitous transcriptional enhancer factor that is a member of the TEA/ATTS domain family. This protein directs the transactivation of a wide variety of genes and, in placental cells, also acts as a transcriptional repressor. Mutations in this gene cause Sveinsson's chorioretinal atrophy. Additional transcript variants have been described but their full-length natures have not been experimentally verified. [provided by RefSeq, May 2010].

ZNF292
This gene encodes a growth hormone-dependent, zinc finger transcription factor that functions as a tumor suppressor. Naturally occurring mutations in this gene are associated with gastric cancer, colorectal cancer, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. [provided by RefSeq, May 2017].

IL1RAP
This gene encodes a component of the interleukin 1 receptor complex, which initiates signalling events that result in the activation of interleukin 1-responsive genes. Alternative splicing of this gene results in membrane-bound and soluble isoforms differing in their C-terminus. The ratio of soluble to membrane-bound forms increases during acute-phase induction or stress. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2018].

SPOCK3
This gene encodes a member of a novel family of calcium-binding proteoglycan proteins that contain thyroglobulin type-1 and Kazal-like domains. The encoded protein and may play a role in adult T-cell leukemia by inhibiting the activity of membrane-type matrix metalloproteinases. Alternatively spliced transcript variants encoding multiple isoforms have been observed for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2011].

FAT4
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the protocadherin family. This gene may play a role in regulating planar cell polarity (PCP). Studies in mice suggest that loss of PCP signaling may cause cystic kidney disease, and mutations in this gene have been associated with Van Maldergem Syndrome 2. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been noted for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Mar 2014].

ZNF107
This gene encodes a protein containing multiple C2H2-type zinc finger regions. Proteins containing zinc fingers may act as transcriptional regulators, but may also have other cellular functions. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2013].

SPTSSB
Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT; EC 2.3.1.50) catalyzes the first committed and rate-limiting step in sphingolipid biosynthesis. SSSPTB is a small SPT subunit that stimulates SPT activity and confers acyl-CoA preference to the SPT catalytic heterodimer of SPTLC1 (MIM 605712) and either SPTLC2 (MIM 605713) or SPTLC3 (MIM 611120) (Han et al., 2009 [PubMed 19416851]).[supplied by OMIM, Nov 2010].

LAMA2
Laminin, an extracellular protein, is a major component of the basement membrane. It is thought to mediate the attachment, migration, and organization of cells into tissues during embryonic development by interacting with other extracellular matrix components. It is composed of three subunits, alpha, beta, and gamma, which are bound to each other by disulfide bonds into a cross-shaped molecule. This gene encodes the alpha 2 chain, which constitutes one of the subunits of laminin 2 (merosin) and laminin 4 (s-merosin). Mutations in this gene have been identified as the cause of congenital merosin-deficient muscular dystrophy. Two transcript variants encoding different proteins have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ZNF136
This gene encodes a zinc finger protein containing a Kruppel-associated box (KRAB) A-box domain at its N-terminus, followed by fourteen contiguous C2H2 zinc finger domains and a degenerate zinc finger. The KRAB A-box showed weak transcriptional repressor activity in a reporter gene assay. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016].

ZKSCAN5
This gene encodes a zinc finger protein of the Kruppel family. The protein contains a SCAN box and a KRAB A domain and may be involved in transcriptional regulation. A similar protein in mouse is differentially expressed in spermatogenesis. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2015].

SLC39A10
Zinc is an essential cofactor for hundreds of enzymes. It is involved in protein, nucleic acid, carbohydrate, and lipid metabolism, as well as in the control of gene transcription, growth, development, and differentiation. SLC39A10 belongs to a subfamily of proteins that show structural characteristics of zinc transporters (Taylor and Nicholson, 2003 [PubMed 12659941]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

GAL3ST4
This gene encodes a member of the galactose-3-O-sulfotransferase protein family. The product of this gene catalyzes sulfonation by transferring a sulfate to the C-3' position of galactose residues in O-linked glycoproteins. This enzyme is highly specific for core 1 structures, with asialofetuin, Gal-beta-1,3-GalNAc and Gal-beta-1,3 (GlcNAc-beta-1,6)GalNAc being good substrates. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

SYNGAP1
This gene encodes a Ras GTPase activating protein that is a member of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. The N-terminal domain of the protein contains a Ras-GAP domain, a pleckstrin homology domain, and a C2 domain that may be involved in binding of calcium and phospholipids. The C-terminal domain consists of a ten histidine repeat region, serine and tyrosine phosphorylation sites, and a T/SXV motif required for postsynaptic scaffold protein interaction. The encoded protein negatively regulates Ras, Rap and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor trafficking to the postsynaptic membrane to regulate synaptic plasticity and neuronal homeostasis. Allelic variants of this gene are associated with intellectual disability and autism spectrum disorder. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Nov 2016].

OGDHL
The protein encoded by this gene is similar to oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH) of the OGDH complex, which degrades glucose and glutamate. This gene encodes several isoforms, including some that appear to localize to mitochondria. The encoded protein down-regulates the AKT signaling cascade and can suppress the growth of cervical cancer cells. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016].

PDGFA
This gene encodes a member of the protein family comprised of both platelet-derived growth factors (PDGF) and vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF). The encoded preproprotein is proteolytically processed to generate platelet-derived growth factor subunit A, which can homodimerize, or alternatively, heterodimerize with the related platelet-derived growth factor subunit B. These proteins bind and activate PDGF receptor tyrosine kinases, which play a role in a wide range of developmental processes. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2015].

DPP4
The protein encoded by this gene is identical to adenosine deaminase complexing protein-2, and to the T-cell activation antigen CD26. It is an intrinsic membrane glycoprotein and a serine exopeptidase that cleaves X-proline dipeptides from the N-terminus of polypeptides. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ZNF181
Zinc finger proteins have been shown to interact with nucleic acids and to have diverse functions. The zinc finger domain is a conserved amino acid sequence motif containing 2 specifically positioned cysteines and 2 histidines that are involved in coordinating zinc. Kruppel-related proteins form 1 family of zinc finger proteins. See MIM 604749 for additional information on zinc finger proteins.[supplied by OMIM, Jul 2003].

HELZ
HELZ is a member of the superfamily I class of RNA helicases. RNA helicases alter the conformation of RNA by unwinding double-stranded regions, thereby altering the biologic activity of the RNA molecule and regulating access to other proteins (Wagner et al., 1999 [PubMed 10471385]).[supplied by OMIM, Mar 2008].

BHLHB9
This gene is a member of a gene family which encodes proteins with a basic helix-loop-helix domain. Other members of this gene family encode proteins which function as transcription factors, either enhancing or inhibiting transcription depending on the activity of other DNA binding proteins. The coding region of this gene is located entirely within the terminal exon. The encoded protein may be involved in the survival of neurons (PMID: 15034937). Multiple alternatively spliced variants, encoding the same protein, have been identified. [provided by RefSeq, Sep 2011].

L3MBTL3
This gene encodes a member of the malignant brain tumor (MBT) family of chromatin interacting transcriptional repressors. Members of this family function as methyl-lysine readers, which recognize methylated lysine residues on histone protein tails, and are associated with the repression of gene expression. The encoded protein may regulate hematopoiesis. Homozygous deletion of this gene has been observed in human patients with medulloblastoma. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2016].

CHML
The product of the CHML gene supports geranylgeranylation of most Rab proteins and may substitute for REP-1 in tissues other than retina. CHML is localized close to the gene for Usher syndrome type II. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

BMPR2
This gene encodes a member of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptor family of transmembrane serine/threonine kinases. The ligands of this receptor are BMPs, which are members of the TGF-beta superfamily. BMPs are involved in endochondral bone formation and embryogenesis. These proteins transduce their signals through the formation of heteromeric complexes of two different types of serine (threonine) kinase receptors: type I receptors of about 50-55 kD and type II receptors of about 70-80 kD. Type II receptors bind ligands in the absence of type I receptors, but they require their respective type I receptors for signaling, whereas type I receptors require their respective type II receptors for ligand binding. Mutations in this gene have been associated with primary pulmonary hypertension, both familial and fenfluramine-associated, and with pulmonary venoocclusive disease. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

MBD5
This gene encodes a member of the methyl-CpG-binding domain (MBD) family. The MBD consists of about 70 residues and is the minimal region required for a methyl-CpG-binding protein binding specifically to methylated DNA. In addition to the MBD domain, this protein contains a PWWP domain (Pro-Trp-Trp-Pro motif), which consists of 100-150 amino acids and is found in numerous proteins that are involved in cell division, growth and differentiation. Mutations in this gene cause an autosomal dominant type of cognitive disability. The encoded protein interacts with the polycomb repressive complex PR-DUB which catalyzes the deubiquitination of a lysine residue of histone 2A. Haploinsufficiency of this gene is associated with a syndrome involving microcephaly, intellectual disabilities, severe speech impairment, and seizures. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been found, but their full-length nature is not determined. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2017].

MRPS18B
Mammalian mitochondrial ribosomal proteins are encoded by nuclear genes and help in protein synthesis within the mitochondrion. Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) consist of a small 28S subunit and a large 39S subunit. They have an estimated 75% protein to rRNA composition compared to prokaryotic ribosomes, where this ratio is reversed. Another difference between mammalian mitoribosomes and prokaryotic ribosomes is that the latter contain a 5S rRNA. Among different species, the proteins comprising the mitoribosome differ greatly in sequence, and sometimes in biochemical properties, which prevents easy recognition by sequence homology. This gene encodes a 28S subunit protein that belongs to the ribosomal protein S18P family. The encoded protein is one of three that has significant sequence similarity to bacterial S18 proteins. The primary sequences of the three human mitochondrial S18 proteins are no more closely related to each other than they are to the prokaryotic S18 proteins. Pseudogenes corresponding to this gene are found on chromosomes 1q and 2q. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

TTC25
This gene encodes a tetratricopeptide repeat domain-containing protein that localizes to ciliary axonmenes and plays a role in the docking of the outer dynein arm to cilia. Mutations in this gene cause severely reduced ciliary motility and the disorder CILD35 (ciliary dyskinesia,primary, 35). Primary ciliary dyskinesia is often associated with recurrent respiratory infections, immotile spermatozoa, and situs inversus; an inversion in left-right body symmetry. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants encoding distinct isoforms. [provided by RefSeq, Apr 2017].

KRT6A
The protein encoded by this gene is a member of the keratin gene family. The type II cytokeratins consist of basic or neutral proteins which are arranged in pairs of heterotypic keratin chains coexpressed during differentiation of simple and stratified epithelial tissues. As many as six of this type II cytokeratin (KRT6) have been identified; the multiplicity of the genes is attributed to successive gene duplication events. The genes are expressed with family members KRT16 and/or KRT17 in the filiform papillae of the tongue, the stratified epithelial lining of oral mucosa and esophagus, the outer root sheath of hair follicles, and the glandular epithelia. This KRT6 gene in particular encodes the most abundant isoform. Mutations in these genes have been associated with pachyonychia congenita. In addition, peptides from the C-terminal region of the protein have antimicrobial activity against bacterial pathogens. The type II cytokeratins are clustered in a region of chromosome 12q12-q13. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014].

RBMXL1
This gene represents a retrogene of RNA binding motif protein, X-linked (RBMX), which is located on chromosome X. While all introns in the coding sequence have been processed out compared to the RBMX locus, the ORF is intact and there is specific evidence for transcription at this location. The preservation of the ORF by purifying selection in all Old World monkeys carrying it suggests that this locus is likely to be functional, possibly during male meiosis when X chromosomal genes are silenced or during haploid stages of spermatogenesis. This gene shares 5' exon structure with the cysteine conjugate-beta lyase 2 locus on chromosome 1, but the coding sequences are non-overlapping. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Jun 2009].

DDAH2
This gene encodes a dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase. The encoded enzyme functions in nitric oxide generation by regulating the cellular concentrations of methylarginines, which in turn inhibit nitric oxide synthase activity. The protein may be localized to the mitochondria. Alternative splicing resulting in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2014].

HBE1
The epsilon globin gene (HBE) is normally expressed in the embryonic yolk sac: two epsilon chains together with two zeta chains (an alpha-like globin) constitute the embryonic hemoglobin Hb Gower I; two epsilon chains together with two alpha chains form the embryonic Hb Gower II. Both of these embryonic hemoglobins are normally supplanted by fetal, and later, adult hemoglobin. The five beta-like globin genes are found within a 45 kb cluster on chromosome 11 in the following order:  5'-epsilon - G-gamma - A-gamma - delta - beta-3' [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

ANG
The protein encoded by this gene is an exceedingly potent mediator of new blood vessel formation. It hydrolyzes cellular tRNAs resulting in decreased protein synthesis and is similar to pancreatic ribonuclease. In addition, the mature peptide has antimicrobial activity against some bacteria and fungi, including S. pneumoniae and C. albicans. Alternative splicing results in two transcript variants encoding the same protein. This gene and the gene that encodes ribonuclease, RNase A family, 4 share promoters and 5' exons. Each gene splices to a unique downstream exon that contains its complete coding region. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2014].

FAM200A
This gene encodes a protein of unknown function. The protein is weakly similar to transposase-like proteins in human and mouse. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].

DANCR
This gene produces a long non-coding RNA that functions as a negative regulator of cell differentiation. This transcript associates with enhancer of zeste homolog 2 to repress expression of the runt related transcription factor 2 gene. Increased expression of this transcript may be associated with cancer. Alternatively spliced transcript variants have been observed. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2016].

ARHGEF25
Rho GTPases alternate between an inactive GDP-bound state and an active GTP-bound state, and GEFs facilitate GDP/GTP exchange. This gene encodes a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) which interacts with Rho GTPases involved in contraction of vascular smooth muscles, regulation of responses to angiotensin II and lens cell differentiation. Multiple transcript variants encoding different isoforms have been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Jan 2012].

PEG10
This is a paternally expressed imprinted gene that is thought to have been derived from the Ty3/Gypsy family of retrotransposons. It contains two overlapping open reading frames, RF1 and RF2, and expresses two proteins: a shorter, gag-like protein (with a CCHC-type zinc finger domain) from RF1; and a longer, gag/pol-like fusion protein (with an additional aspartic protease motif) from RF1/RF2 by -1 translational frameshifting (-1 FS). While -1 FS has been observed in RNA viruses and transposons in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, this gene represents the first example of -1 FS in a eukaryotic cellular gene. This gene is highly conserved across mammalian species and retains the heptanucleotide (GGGAAAC) and pseudoknot elements required for -1 FS. It is expressed in adult and embryonic tissues (most notably in placenta) and reported to have a role in cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Overexpression of this gene has been associated with several malignancies, such as hepatocellular carcinoma and B-cell lymphocytic leukemia. Knockout mice lacking this gene showed early embryonic lethality with placental defects, indicating the importance of this gene in embryonic development. Additional isoforms resulting from alternatively spliced transcript variants, and use of upstream non-AUG (CUG) start codon have been reported for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2014].

STON1
Endocytosis of cell surface proteins is mediated by a complex molecular machinery that assembles on the inner surface of the plasma membrane. This gene encodes one of two human homologs of the Drosophila melanogaster stoned B protein. This protein is related to components of the endocytic machinery and exhibits a modular structure consisting of an N-terminal proline-rich domain, a central region of homology specific to the human stoned B-like proteins, and a C-terminal region homologous to the mu subunits of adaptor protein (AP) complexes. Read-through transcription of this gene into the neighboring downstream gene, which encodes TFIIA-alpha/beta-like factor, generates a transcript (SALF), which encodes a fusion protein comprised of sequence sharing identity with each individual gene product. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2010].

KCTD7
This gene encodes a member of the potassium channel tetramerization domain-containing protein family. Family members are identified on a structural basis and contain an amino-terminal domain similar to the T1 domain present in the voltage-gated potassium channel. Mutations in this gene have been associated with progressive myoclonic epilepsy-3. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants.[provided by RefSeq, Jan 2011].

SELENOP
This gene encodes a selenoprotein that is predominantly expressed in the liver and secreted into the plasma. This selenoprotein is unique in that it contains multiple selenocysteine (Sec) residues per polypeptide (10 in human), and accounts for most of the selenium in plasma. It has been implicated as an extracellular antioxidant, and in the transport of selenium to extra-hepatic tissues via apolipoprotein E receptor-2 (apoER2). Mice lacking this gene exhibit neurological dysfunction, suggesting its importance in normal brain function. Sec is encoded by the UGA codon, which normally signals translation termination. The 3' UTRs of selenoprotein mRNAs contain a conserved stem-loop structure, designated the Sec insertion sequence (SECIS) element, that is necessary for the recognition of UGA as a Sec codon, rather than as a stop signal. The mRNA for this selenoprotein contains two SECIS elements. The use of alternative polyadenylation sites, one located in between the two SECIS elements, results in two populations of mRNAs containing either both (predominant) or just the upstream SECIS element (PMID:27881738). Alternatively spliced transcript variants have also been found for this gene. [provided by RefSeq, Oct 2018].

TUG1
This gene produces a long non-coding RNA that interacts with the Polycomb repressor complex and functions in the epigenetic regulation of transcription. This RNA promotes cell proliferation and is upregulated in tumor cells. It may act as a sponge for microRNAs. The homologous mouse gene is required for differentiation of retina. Alternative splicing results in multiple transcript variants. [provided by RefSeq, Dec 2017].

GRIN2B
This gene encodes a member of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor family within the ionotropic glutamate receptor superfamily. The encoded protein is a subunit of the NMDA receptor ion channel which acts as an agonist binding site for glutamate. The NMDA receptors mediate a slow calcium-permeable component of excitatory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The NMDA receptors are heterotetramers of seven genetically encoded, differentially expressed subunits including NR1 (GRIN1), NR2 (GRIN2A, GRIN2B, GRIN2C, or GRIN2D) and NR3 (GRIN3A or GRIN3B). The early expression of this gene in development suggests a role in brain development, circuit formation, synaptic plasticity, and cellular migration and differentiation. Naturally occurring mutations within this gene are associated with neurodevelopmental disorders including autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. [provided by RefSeq, Aug 2017].

